ECG filling up the FNB stadium of over 100 000 people ECG with 3 millions members in South Africa. We can surely cause an upset against our oppressors in the ruling party in this country. South Africans who are members, supporters and followers of Enlightened Christian Gathering [ECG] , let’s not act unwise like we don’t have power in the statistics of our membership. Major 1 prophetically introduced online census [a tool we can use] early this year, which can help us direct our membership against King Uzziah of our generation. Isaiah 6:1 MSG 1 In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Master sitting on a throne—high, exalted!—and the train of his robes filled the Temple. Angel-seraphs hovered above him, each with six wings. We are currently dealing with our own Uzziahs in the forms of Hawks, NPA and the ruling party. It took the whole Prophet of God called Isaiah to suffer the consequences of Uzziah been on the throne, to such an extent that the Prophet could not see God as long as, this King remain in power. African National Congress [ANC] and their fellow oppositions have failed to protect our Prophet during this time of need, as a Church we have no political party to protect our interests except for BLF of Andile Mngxi thus far. Brothers, who stand with us during hardships are brothers indeed not just in need and instead of keeping our votes, which is our power and voice in a voiceless society and community, let’s not empower our enemies, who will end up closing our church and continue to persecute our Prophet Shepherd Bushiri We should not act ignorant and think as if, we don’t need political affliances or association right now. The South African government and the ruling party have pathetically failed to protect the Prophet during countless times in which police cases of extortions were opened against IPID, NPA and hawks etc 2 Cor 2:11 MSG After all, we don’t want to unwittingly give Satan an opening for yet more mischief—we’re not oblivious to his sly ways! Lasty, remember the Kingdom of God is not in words but demonstration of the power of God conferred upon us. This is a whole debate in which we can reach, a point of not just praying but also acting. It is written “Faith without work is dead” Reposted from Nathan Navira‘s Facebook page.