Thomas Sankara. Image credit: Goodread Biography By Andile Mngxitama Our fight against land thieves and white monopoly capital (WMC) is not an excuse to promote looting of the poor so as to sponsor the addiction to the conspicuous consumption of luxury designer brands such as Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Range Rover. We subscribe to and strive to be like Thomas Sankara who served the people. Upon becoming President of Burkina Faso he sold the government’s fleet of Mercedes-Benzes and made the Renault 5, which was at that time the cheapest car in Burkina Faso, the official car; and cut the salaries of politicians, amongst other things. That’s why we as Black First Land First (BLF) are promoting the Thomas Sankara Oath. Our principle of defending all black people is not a license to defend cruel corrupt people who steal from black poor pensioners to sponsor their addiction to designer brands and bling. What happened to VBS Mutual Bank (VBS) is evil. We maintain that we shall defend all black people who come under attack from land thieves. That’s completely different from defending looters of the poor. We abhor corruption intensely. We are at war with WMC because it is inherently corrupt and evil. That’s why we would never march hand in hand with WMC to defend any of its agents like Pravin Gordhan. That’s why we would never give political power to WMC and call it the “better devil”. We can’t use the corruption of WMC as an excuse to allow black politicians to loot the poor. We are at war with WMC to end all corruption. The selective prosecution of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) is a function of politics. Right now WMC controls the state and therefore uses it to persecute its opponents and control its agents. Black leaders who get involved in corruption de facto compromise the revolution because their corruption will be used by WMC to turn them into askaries. To reject corruption and call out the corrupt is a revolutionary duty to secure the revolution. We call on all to reject corruption because it compromises the revolution. We say reject the addiction to designer brands such as Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Range Rover. We say, “be like Sankara; put the people first.” We want a new morality of service to the people. Sankara showed the way. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.