By BO Staff Writer Government has postponed the phased reopening of schools from 1 June to 8 June 2020 ostensibly to prepare the schools for learners to return. The postponement doesn’t however address the fact that upon schools reopening next week, the lives of learners and teachers, as well as their families and communities, will be put at high risk of contracting the Covid-19 virus and even dying from it. The radical black consciousness organization, Black First Land First (BLF), says that the government is hiding the fact that its decision to reopen schools is part of its herd immunity policy which will result in mass infections and death. To this end, in March, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize announced that between 60% and 70% of the South African population will contract Covid-19 with a fraction thereof constituting serious cases. This suggests that 70% of SA’s population of over 59 million will be infected by Covid-19. Moreover the estimated death rate is 2.3% and the rate of severe disease is 19% . This all translates to 41 million people getting infected; 1 million people dying; and 8 million people suffering from severe infections requiring critical care. So the government is now allowing the virus to infect the majority of the population at a controlled pace towards achieving herd immunity. Opening the schools is part of this plan. However as the leading Chinese coronavirus expert, Dr Zhong Nanshan, has pointed out – the herd immunity strategy won’t work to contain the pandemic. This is because the chances of being reinfected are real and the virus is too infectious and too lethal. BLF has been at the forefront of getting the government to reverse its senseless and effectively murderous decision to reopen schools at level three of the 5-level Covid-19 lockdown system. “The pressure to return to normal is part of the plan of white monopoly capital (WMC). This shutdown was never about health. WMC has made its money through state relief packages while at the same time destroying the labour market; executing massive job cuts, and decimating small businesses. It now wants schools to act as hubs for transmitting the virus so that more money can be made as more people get infected,” BLF President Andile Mngxitama said. “BLF reiterates its call on parents and teachers to defy the murderous decision to reopen schools. We call on government to shutdown all schools until the Covid-19 pandemic has been medically and scientifically addressed,” he urged.