Khotso Seatlholo (left), Tsietsi Mashinini (right) By Andile Mngxitama Tsietsi Mashinini, the chairperson of the Soweto Students’ Representative Council (SSRC), and his deputy Khotso Seatlholo were members of the South African Students’ Movement (SASM). Both the SSRC and SASM were among the 18 Black Consciousness-affiliated organisations banned on 19 October 1977. After the June 16 uprising Tsietsi (in 1976) followed by Khotso (in 1977) were forced into exile. They never joined any of the then existing liberation movements like the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) or African National Congress (ANC) in exile. They instead dissolved the SSRC and established the South African Youth Revolutionary Council (SAYRCO) in 1979. When Khotso Seatlholo later returned to South Africa (SA) on a daring mission to recruit an army, he was arrested, convicted and subsequently spent 10 years on Robben Island. I had the privilege of staying in the same house with Khotso when I was a high school learner. Khotso and Tsietsi were the children of Abram Tiro and Steve Biko. We will discuss this further on Tuesday when we go live via Zoom. Incidentally, last week I spoke telephonically to the Black Consciousness Movement (BCM) stalwart, Dr Nchaupe Aubrey Mokoape, a man who Steve Biko on numerous occasions called his friend. This call concluded the availability of participants for the event regarding the June 16 uprising. We now have a great lineup of panelists, possibly the highest you can go in the BCM. To say I’m excited is an understatement. Diarize this experience, you can’t miss it: Date & time: 16 June 2020, 20h00
Event: Panel discussion
Panelists: Dr Mokoape, Cde Tiyani Lybon Mabasa, and Prof Itumeleng Mosala
Mediator: Andile Mngxitama
Where: Blacks Can’t Be Racist Facebook page
Topic: The place of the June 16, 1976 Soweto Uprising in the history of our struggle June 16 is Black Power Day!!! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.