By Andile Mngxitama If I have R100 and I give you one rand, it’s fokol, right? Let’s stop behaving like drunks after being given a total of R2 Billion from the collective wealth of over R207 Billion of the Oppenheimers and the Ruperts. Let’s get up from our knees. It’s pathetic. Last year alone, after removing Jacob Zuma as President of South Africa (SA), Johann Rupert made R11 Billion and the Oppenheimers made R6 Billion. They made this profit in just one year. Moreover, the total wealth of each of them suggests that: i. Johann Rupert is worth R103.4 Billion; and
ii. Nicky Oppenheimer is worth R102.98 Billion. The total state allocation for this national coronavirus lockdown is a mere R13 Billion (R2 Billion of which is sponsored by Rupert and Oppenheimer). It is significant that all of this allocation goes to the same white monopoly capital (WMC). In the meantime: i. R0.00 has been allocated for the 3 million in the informal sector which includes hairdressers; hawkers; car guards; car washers; errand runners; and hustlers of all manner and way – they say they will make a plan; and
ii. R0.00 has been allocated for the unemployed and there are no plans at all for them. Clearly, this whole Oppernheimer/Rupert scheme is to bail out WMC. This is what Black First Land First (BLF) asked the Ramaphosa government for: 1. Grant free testing and nationalize the healthcare sector.
2. Provide a universal income grant to all and financial bailout to small businesses.
3. Put a moratorium on mortgage bond and rental payments.
4. Grant free water and elecrity to all.
5. Grant free data for all.
6. Grant no payment of subscription to any television network.
7. Grant full paid leave for the employed.
8. Give the over 1000 Clinical Associates in the Health sector their powers back including prescription of medicines up to schedule four.
9. Deal with the backlog of licensing medical school graduates from the black universities.
10. Love this nation enough to save it from the coming Armageddon. None of the people centered things that we asked for were granted, not even free testing. Please can we take ourselves seriously also. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.