By Andile Mngxitama No one but Black First Land First (BLF) is going to tell YOU, “If we don’t stop Cyril NOW, 1 million people WILL die!” Listen carefully. Cyril Ramaphosa is planning to save 30% of the population from the coronavirus and make lots of money for white monopoly capital (WMC) on the 70% he is prepared to sacrifice. The 30% he thinks will be saved are assumed to be white people. When the Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says that up to 70% of the population to be infected with coronavirus, a fraction of which will constitute serious cases, he is telling the truth. That is South African government policy. It’s called “herd immunity”. For ‘herd immunity’ to be developed in South Africa (SA), over 70% of the population must contract the disease (in this case coronavirus) so as to build up a national tolerance that is strong enough to prevent the virus from circulating. But this will only work if there is no possibility of reinfections in the 70% and if the decease is not extremely infectious and fatal. In the case of coronavirus there is no evidence of no reinfections, and the decease is both extremely infectious and lethal. So the ‘herd immunity’ strategy won’t work in containing and destroying the coronavirus epidemic. Anyway do search the net for ‘herd immunity’ to learn more. Anyway the strategy has been adopted by the UK, USA and the Netherlands. Italy has also followed it by default. Here is what is likely to happen if 70% of the South African population of about 59.5 million gets infected: 1. 41,5 million people will be infected (70%)
2. 8 milllion people will be critically infected (19%, severe infections)
3. 1 million will die! (2.3% death rate)
4. WMC will make obscene profits from all this
5. 30% would be freed from the carnage We will keep informing you. But this is a likely scenario if the current policy is followed. It explains why the country is not under lockdown. That’s how it works. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.