By Andile Mngxitama Two black people were killed in Mpumalanga just this week in African National Congress (ANC) branch meetings. Securing a position in the ANC leadership, has become a way to end personal poverty. I don’t think we can blame blacks for murdering each other for ANC positions. The problem is deep. The ANC stopped being a liberation movement and has become a mere political party. This means that the top leaders got the perks of the apartheid political leaders. You get these perks by being deployed in the state. So blacks are made to compete for jobs and deployment in the state in all its tiers. The ANC is an employment agency and open door for petty tenders at Local Government level. But the state can only accommodate a few, so competition is fierce. This condition is created by the failure to transform the apartheid economy. Even in the case of petty tenders, very little ends up in the hands of tenderprenuers. The bulk goes to white monopoly capital (WMC) because it’s the supplier. The murders happening inside the ANC are the symptoms of a liberation movement that failed. ANC leaders are happy to accept crumbs falling from the table of WMC. They are competing to prostitute themselves to WMC on the one hand; and on the other hand are competing for tenders and state jobs, because they left economic power in the hands of WMC. Until there is Radical Economic Transformation (RET), this situation of murderous competition won’t stop. But RET must also bring in the Thomas Sankara Oath, in terms of which leaders are compelled to sacrifice to realize a new dispensation. That’s why we must do what we can to save the ANC. Our Slogan must be: Build BLF! Save the ANC!!! Only radical Black Nationalism and RET can save the ANC… The idea of seeking ALLIANCE status with the ruling party should be seriously looked into so that preaching the leadership ethos of Sankara and Black Consciousness (BC) of Steve Biko can be escalated inside the ANC. WMC knows the power of the ANC, hence it buys its leaders. We have to bring the ANC back to the revolutionary path. Black First Land First (BLF) must be built into a formidable Independent organization that can strike on its own whilst maintaining a close watch on the ANC. Time to think dangerously again…. Build BLF! Save the ANC!!! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.