By Andile Mngxitama When South Africa (SA) recorded the first case of COVID-19 infection on 5th March, Cyril Ramaphosa didn’t do what was necessary to isolate, monitor, track, and defeat the virus. And when by 15 March there were 61 cases of infections recorded, Ramaphosa didn’t see it fit to shut the country down immediately, put measures in place to stop the rise of infections, and stabilize the country. Let’s check the chronology of events regarding the COVID-19 pandemic in SA: 1. On 5th March, the 1st case of COVID-19 is confirmed.
2. On 15th March, 61 cases of infections are recorded; and Ramaphosa addresses the nation but says nothing material to the well being of the people.
3. 0n 18th March, Parliament shuts down; and Members of Parliament (MPs) self quarantine as they leave the country to infect itself.
4. On 23 March, after getting authority from the Oppenheimers/Ruperts, Ramaphosa announces a national shutdown to commence 4 days later on 27th March.
5. On 26th March, 927 infections are recorded.
6. On 27th March over 1000 infections and 2 deaths are recorded. There’s no help for the poor; and a useless national lockdown set in motion for the next 21 days. On this first day of the supposed lockdown on account of the pandemic, life is normal in most townships. In some locations the army is shutting down Spaza Shops and forcing people to buy food at crowded supermarkets owned by the Ruperts and Oppenheimers. MPs are out of harm’s way. They took care of themselves first… In the meantime Black First Land First (BLF) has been shouting for an immediate shutdown of the country right from the onset of the pandemic. The senseless deaths and infections could have been prevented but because Ramaphosa, in cahoots with Stellenbosch and London, follows the ‘Herd Immunity‘ policy, he doesn’t care. They want to meet the target of 70% infections and 1 million deaths! Note point 3 in particular. Vuka Darkie! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.