By Andile Mngxitama What the government, in cahoots with white monopoly capital (WMC), has done is calculated to instigate a national panic to make profits. Maximum infections have been deliberately allowed to take hold since President Ramaphosa announced a “national lockdown” on Monday of 21 days to begin at midnight on 26 March. The announcement amounts to a pro white monopoly capital (WMC) and anti people stimulus package. It gives nothing to the most vulnerable, being black people. Since the first incident of coronavirus in South Africa (SA) two weeks ago, people have been thrust into a daily buying panic which gives WMC (Stellenbosch/ruling class) huge profits. Also people have been commuting to work in packed buses; trains and taxis possibly carrying and spreading the virus. The statistics we are given are not reliable. We don’t have sophisticated mechanisms in place to test, track and monitor infections like China, South Korea and Vietnam have, for instance. After Ramaphosa’s announcement on Monday the buying panic has intensified many fold giving WMC, such as the Oppenheimer and Rupert families, maximum profits. Moreover people are traveling in their thousands in packed transport as they move from the cities where they work, seek employment or study to their homes in mainly small towns and villages. In this process the carrying and spreading of the virus continues. In three weeks dead bodies will start rolling out of homes. The target of infecting 60 to 70% of the population in line with the deadly “herd immunity” strategy that the SA government has adopted (because it is good for business), would have been reached. Let’s repeat ourselves. Contrary to Ramaphosa’s announcement, there is NO lockdown in SA. The announcement of the lockdown, including the stimulus package, is a mere WMC driven panic trigger to let the profits flow and give the SA Army an opportunity to kick a few blacks. As Black First Land First (BLF) keeps saying, “WMC doesn’t DONATE, it INVESTS”. Stellenbosch will take over everything after the panic. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.