Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Image via facebook By BO Staff Writer Yesterday the full bench of the North Gauteng High Court set aside the report of Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane regarding the R500 000 donation made by the erstwhile Bosasa boss Gavin Watson towards the CR17 campaign. It also imposed a punitive cost order against Mkhwebane. Led by Judge President Dustin Mlambo, the Court ruled that Mkhwebane lacked the necessary jurisdiction to investigate the CR17 campaign, her findings on the CR17 campaign donations were unlawful, and Ramaphosa did not mislead parliament. It also suggested that Mkhwebane had made some “unfathomable” findings, and shown “a complete lack of knowledge of the law and its application.” In her report Mkhwebane found that Ramaphosa had deliberately misled Parliament regarding the Bosasa donation, the CR17 campaign was driven by massive criminality, and that over R400 million had exchanged hands under the table. The Sunday Independent found upon further investigations that it was actually R1 billion that was sponsored to the CR17 campaign. Black First Land First (BLF) President Andile Mngxitama, strongly denounced the Court’s judgement. Taking to social media he said: “I can’t believe that they actually denied that Ramaphosa misled parliament. Where is the contact he said he was shown? It’s also shocking that they found that Ramaphosa didn’t personally benefit from the R1 billion donations. I mean this is the worst bullshit i have ever heard. The R1 billion went to the CR17 campaign which made Ramaphosa President. These judges must think we are all fools. Clearly the judgment serves the Stellenbosch plan to remove the Public Protector from office. The judiciary serves the ruling class. Stellenbosch clearly runs the courts.” Mngxitama also called out the bench for furthering the agenda of the ruling class: “Judge Mlambo & Co (Judges Elias Matojane and Raylene Keightley) lied to protect the Stellenbosch agenda because they are crusaders against radical economic transformation (RET),” he said With special reference to the Judge President, Mngxitama pointed out: “Mlambo didn’t disappoint. Any black person associated by perception or reality with RET has no hope in hell for justice. He is the ideological stronghold of the Stellenbosch agenda. I don’t believe that he is bought with money though. His problem is much deeper and much much more severe – he is convinced that by serving the Stellenbosch agenda he is doing service to the nation. He swallowed the WMC propaganda that Zuma and the Guptas are dangerous for civilization and democracy. The man would die for the Stellenbosch agenda. No, it’s not money. It’s conviction. That’s how deep the tragedy runs.” And as for the leaders of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) who, after the judgement was delivered, questioned South Africa’s justice system and slammed judges for making nonsensical decisions, the BLF President said: “The judiciary was never and could never be neutral. Remember when you (EFF) were winning against Zuma? No, you were not winning because you were good. You were winning because you were doing the work of WMC. Get it? Grand sharp…”