Johann Rupert and Nicky Oppenheimer By Andile Mngxitama Since the formation of Black First Land First (BLF) our main task is “to make visible, the invisible hand of white monopoly capital (WMC)” because WMC is the primary enemy. This task means making our people understand that families like the Oppenheimers and the Ruperts are the real criminal gang. We had made some progress showing how the Rupert family, amongst others, stole billions from the people through the Bankorp bailouts just before the end of apartheid. 26 BLF leaders are still facing trial for peacefully protesting at the offices of the Public Protector under Thuli Madonsela and demanding for action against Johann Rupert and other WMC entities. BLF challenged Rupert when he said that he has a private army in the taxi industry. We were taken to court for this. We exposed how the British firm Bell Pottinger worked for Rupert for over 18 years, before the Guptas poached it. We took the fight to Rupert’s stolen land when others were sipping his wines in their functions and meeting him in secret. Because of BLF land struggles, Rupert has obtained over 30 High Court interdicts against our movement. We did more. When the Oppenheimers addressed parliament, others ran away. It was BLF that was left to confront the powerful family in parliament. We exposed the Fireblade scandal of the Oppenheimers illegally obtaining a private international airport inside an international airport. To this end BLF opened a criminal case against the Oppenheimers. We have agitated hard to make it clear that the real problem in South Africa (SA) is WMC represented essentially by these two families. The R2 billion donation publicly announced by the President as coming from these families is in our view the biggest reversal in the consciousness of the people about what these two families are. It’s like taking help from drug lords who destroy the community. Through this act, the two most problematic families have sanitized and normalised themselves. This is the biggest political and ideological advance that WMC has made to win the hearts and minds of the people it has impoverished. For a long time after the WMC victory in Nasrec, where it successfully took over the African National Congress (ANC) in December 2017, it couldn’t normalise itself as the force behind the President. The Oppenheimers donated R10 million to the CR17 campaign. We don’t know how much Rupert donated. Of course, the R1 billion for the CR17 campaign and the R2 billion for the coronavirus is not a donation. It is an investment and a great Public Relations exercise. The money, in all likelihood, was in any event earmarked for marketing. The two families have seen exponential returns on investments for investing in CR17. The Oppenheimers made R6 billion and Rupert made R11 billion in one year after removing Jacob Zuma as President. This act of Public “donation” in the time of national distress is a marketing and a political master stroke. Welcome to the Republic of the Oppenheimers and Ruperts. They are in charge and are going to make a killing from the coronavirus, pardon the pun. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.