By Andile Mngxitama Yesterday afternoon, I drive out of the Pimville Community Centre in Soweto. It’s after a heavy rainfall. Cars move slowly. I see a fly sister in a red fire Mmasai pattern dress walk towards our direction. You can’t miss her. The dress sets her apart. She commands respect. I check her shoes. There’s a magical relationship between shoes and movement. I’m a Sociologist by training. I observe. The guy in front of me goes slow. But there is pressure and the sister passes behind his car. I have prime spot. The guy has his eyes affixed on the sister all the time. He literally even extends his neck. I’m thinking, “does he know her?” He takes the curb and puts his hazard lights on. I spontaneously do the same. I’m behind him. He is in his world. I think he will jump out. He seems hesitant. I now see that the sister is being helped into a car. She had been carrying some groceries. It turns out that I’m not the only observer. A car guard chap has been watching the whole scene. The driver calls him. I see that he scribbles something on a white piece of paper, but hesitates. I think he is asking if the sister is all by herself or does she have company. I hear the guard say “Uber”. He takes the paper and moves fast to the car. He now stands side by side with the sister. He points towards the driver. The driver waves. The guard comes back and says something. The guy gives him a R50 tip. Participatory research methods kick in. I get out of the car. Through the window I say to the driver, “she is extraordinary, do you know her? “. He says “no”, he is trying his luck. I’m confounded. I ask him about the guard. He says he told him she said she would call. I tell the chap that I’m curious whether she would call. I give him my number and ask him to please let me know if she does make contact with him because it will be a romantic story, if she does., Just after 8pm I got a message – “she made contact”. I smile. He sends a picture of hers explaining that they are at a picture sharing stage. I have enough sociological data. I wish the brother well. He tells me she says the guard had begged her to call. The guy is happy that he tipped him well, even though he didn’t know that the guard worked so hard for the contact. I tell the guy, “if you two eventually fall in love, you must ask her to wear the same dress and go look for the guard and thank him.” He agrees and adds, “maybe we can even do something for the guard.” A nyaope afflicted guard can still see life’s great happy accidents and help them on. The art of seduction is dead. Now it’s pro-forma contracts of conduct and political correctness that prevails. The poetry is gone. I’m glad to have seen glimpses of a dying art form in the rain soaked streets of Soweto… Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. The above is from his Facebook page, posted on 28 February 2020.