By Andile Mngxitama As predicted Clicks stores closed, trended, got the publicity it sought, then like Hennes & Mauritz AB (H&M) – which I didn’t know existed until the so called shutdown – it traded again. This is what I describe in detail as “Synthetic Rage Against Racism” in the new introduction to “Blacks Can’t Be Racist”. It’s a performance of resistance. It’s not resistance. In fact, from the point of view of marketing, Clicks will benefit more from this pseudo action. Behold the fake rage against racism by friends of Helen Zille and Groenewaldt, whilst practically doing nothing about the systemic nature of racism. Not changing the system but rearranging a few things is what ultimately happens. It’s a win win for all involved… White monopoly capital (WMC) understands that if you get the right protesters involved everyone can make money out of racism. This is nothing but PR games. This Clicks saga has been the best marketing strategy ever. I’m sure they can’t believe just how good it has been for the brand. Selling products through racism. They know what they are doing… In this situation, unsuspecting black people mobilize for brand wars. Brands playing at black sensibilities and knowing how easily amused we are by nonsense. Racism is normal in a racist society. I mean the people who have no problem with giving Helen Zille their votes despite her being openly racist aren’t quite the candidates to fight racism. It’s been an empty performance – part of the “Synthetic Rage Against Racism” process – resulting in Unilever protecting the the executive who produced the racist advert in exchange for the promise of a mere 10 000 sanitary pads and 5 black students getting bursaries. There are interesting parallels between Angela Davis, Black Lives Matter and the Mazzotti boys. They all simulate resistance but actually serve power. Do you know that the Land Expropriation Without Compensation process has been extended until the end of the year for some report? There’s no urgency, no worries for the Mazzotti boys. Remember these are friends of Helen Zille. Blacks lose again. WMC and its stooges benefit. Racism goes nowhere… Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.