Black First Land First (BLF) believes that Andile Lungisa is a victim of political persecution. The sentence doesn’t fit the crime at all. The circumstances of the alleged crime in the eyes of objective observers would indicate self defence in a highly charged environment. Lungisa is punished for supporting Radical Economic Transformation (RET) and President Zuma. This sentence amounts to abuse of the judiciary to further political ends. Ironically, in the same week that Andile Lungisa starts his unjustified jail time, a white criminal who is killing the rhino to sell its horns was allowed to walk. A white farmer from Mpumalanga in Middleburg was fined a mere R10 000 for being guilty of selling 5 rhino horns worth R175 000. Deon Cornelius is white therefore he can walk but Andile Lungisa must go to jail. The rhino is an endangered species. Black poachers are regularly shot on sight and killed, but a white man pays only R10 000 and walks. Another case that shows that Lungisa’s sentence is political is how former Blue Bulls rugby player Jacobus “Bees” Roux was allowed to murder a black policeman and then walk. In 2010 when Metro police officer Sergeant Ntshimane Johannes Mogale stopped Roux and found him drunk, he resisted arrest, attacked the policeman and beat him to death. He offered the family of the murdered cop R750 000 blood money and the court let him walk a free man. This happened in 2011. Let’s repeat. A white rugby player murdered a black policeman and paid money to his family and was allowed to walk. Andile Lungisa murdered no one. Andile Lungisa is a victim of the Stellenbosch agenda which paid Cyril Ramaphosa R1 billion to steal the ANC conference so that he can become president. We stand with Andile Lungisa. Our position is that this persecution is nothing but political. It’s an attempt to intimidate those who believe in RET. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 17 September 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 This statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website.