Professor Tshilidzi Marwala. Image: YouTube By Andile Mngxitama Prof Tshilidzi Marwala has presented the most pedestrian and painful attempt on social media to sell the 5G poison. The South African Students Congress (SASCO) comrades were bamboozled by electromagnetic fields and Gigahertz (GHz). Prof Marwala didn’t even go to millimeter waves. In the first 5 minutes he provides a really lazy explanation that says 5G as just another G. He is either lying or genuinely misinformed. The Prof’s grasp of geopolitics and lack of ideological orientation is his biggest weakness. He is the man of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) remember. Like a child he is excited by clothes that will diagnose us, when in fact we are dying from TB, malaria and hunger, despite his 4IR. The guy strikes me as sincere but genuinely ignorant of how power works. It’s not about technology. It’s about technology in the hands of sadistic gangs which would stop at nothing. Do we even need this speed promised by 5G? I was waiting for him to dispel the concerns of the over 300 experts (including professors of science and medicine) globally who have petitioned the European Union (EU) to place a moratorium on the roll out of 5G. I was hoping he would show that the existing studies that say 5G is bad for both humans and the environment are wrong. He doesn’t care it seems for such big concerns by his international colleagues. The man is an evangelist for technology, including 5G, irrespective of the massive concerns raised. Up to this day, there are industry scientists who say junk food is not bad. They say GMO food is great, Those scientists are called to defend the monster organisations like Monsanto. I will never leave the safety of my health in the hands of any professor who is in love with gadgets. Prof Marwala is a crusader for 5G. I will also share the question and session as well. It looks like the SASCO people are bamboozled. Sources 1. Part 1: SASCO Online Lecture with Prof Tshilidzi Marwala talking all the things 4IR, e-Learning and demystifying 5G. 2. Part 2: SASCO Online Lecture by Prof Tshilidzi Marwala talking all things 4IR, e-learning and demystifying 5G 3. 5G Appeal to EU Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.