The President of Madagascar Andry Rajoelina at a ceremony to launch “Covid Organics” in Antananarivo on 20 April 2020. News reports that Madagascar’s President Andry Rajoelina has launched a possible natural preventive and curative remedy against coronavirus that scientists have named “Covid-Organics”, gives us great hope. Black First Land First (BLF) rejects the monster vaccines promoted by the likes of Bill Gates. These vaccines have caused havoc with the health of the poor of the world. We are amenable to nature-based organic solutions to the health challenges of our people. By developing the Artemisia plant based “Covid-Organics” remedy to fight the virus, Madacasgar is showing leadership in home grown solutions. In South Africa (SA), no attempt whatsoever has been made to tap into the indigenous knowledge system of which our African medicine practitioners (wrongly called “traditional”) are an embodiment of. African inyangas, sangomas and a raft of others in the field have not been consulted or engaged. The whole response of the government is geared towards profits for big westen pharmacutial companies such as ASPEN where the Minister of Public Enterprises, Pravin Gordhan, has shares. There is not even a call for exploratory collaboration with the African medical practioners. BLF is encouraged and elated by the launch of Covid-Organics in Madagascar. We call on the South African black medical practioners and scientists to engage with our Malagasy brothers and sisters and collaborate on finding African solutions. BLF is not at all suprised by the World Health Organization (WHO) and its campaign to undermine Covid-Organics. WHO is nothing but an instrument of Bill Gates to pump the whole world with vaccines and microchips to enslave us. We say no to Bill Gate’s vaccines! We say yes to African solutions! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 24 April 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.