Apartheid-era mass murderer, General Constand Viljoen. Image: alchetron By Andile Mngxitama In truth, we shouldn’t be suprised that the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC) has sent condolences to the family of the mass murderer, and apartheid enforcer General Constand Viljoen, who passed away on Friday. The PAC, like the African National Congress (ANC), is a non racial organization. The ANC didn’t accept whites until 1969 in Morogoro. But it only fully accepted them at all levels in 1985 in Kabwe. Remember the ANC was a blacks only organization at the beginning in 1912. The PAC formed in 1959 and accepted whites right from its inception. It has always had white members – a white person being eligible for membership so long as s/he can claim to pay allegiance to Africa. So when we see the PAC sending condolences to the family of an apartheid-era general, we must not be too suprised. It was Steve Biko, through his Black Consciousness (BC) who said BLACKS ONLY. You can read (even online) about some of the main ideological reasons why Biko formed a blacks only movement in the late 1960s. In South Africa (SA) today, only Black First Land First (BLF), follows the teachings of Biko to the letter. Corretly, BLF is a Bikoist organization. Ironically, BLF was banned by a racist organization, the Freedom Front Plus (FF+) who was co-formed by Viljoen. The FF+, which was established to fight amongst other things for the rights of whites to keep the stolen land, understood that its real contradiction is the Black Nationalism of BLF. You can’t fight white supremacy with non racialism. Biko understood this, BLF understands this, and FF+ and all parties and formations of white supremacy understand this. That’s why they fear BLF so much. In SA the real fight is between Black Nationalism and White Supremacy. Everything else is a joke. That’s why BLF is banned. White supremacy, which is a total system of oppression of black people, is white monopoly capital (WMC) in the economic sphere. I’m saying let’s not be too suprised by the PAC. Remember when BLF was dealing with those settler journalists? The PAC threatened to unleash the Azanian People’s Liberation Army (APLA) on BLF in defence of the racist settlers – because they are “journalists”. In the eyes of BLF, all settlers are the same. We respect the PAC, but we have a revolutionary duty to clarify things. Zwe! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.