By Andile Mngxitama I believe the misrepresentation that “5G causes COVID-19”, is the creation of the 5G industry itself through alternative platforms. The same 5G industry then uses the mainstream platforms to discredit the sound and scientifically proven evidence that 5G is dangerous to our health. So they create a distortion. Say its ours. Then go to their mainstream media to redicule it. This deflects attention from the mountain of scientific evidence against 5G. To this end the appeal to the European Union (EU) signed by over 324 experts including scientists and medical doctors globally which warns of the potential serious health risks of 5G and calls for a moratorium on the roll out of the technology until the said risks have been addressed, is instructive. Most significantly the experts petition the EU: “1) To take all reasonable measures to halt the 5G RF-EMF expansion until independent scientists can assure that 5G and the total radiation levels caused by RF-EMF (5G together with 2G, 3G, 4G, and WiFi) will not be harmful for EU-citizens, especially infants, children and pregnant women, as well as the environment.
2) To recommend that all EU countries, especially their radiation safety agencies, follow Resolution 1815 and inform citizens, including, teachers and physicians, about health risks from RF-EMF radiation, how and why to avoid wireless communication, particularly in/near e.g., daycare centers, schools, homes, workplaces, hospitals and elderly care.
3) To appoint immediately, without industry influence, an EU task force of independent, truly impartial EMF-and-health scientists with no conflicts of interest1 to re-evaluate the health risks and: a) To decide about new, safe “maximum total exposure standards” for all wireless communication within EU. b) To study the total and cumulative exposure affecting EU-citizens. c) To create rules that will be prescribed/enforced within the EU about how to avoid exposure exceeding new EU ”maximum total exposure standards” concerning all kinds of EMFs in order to protect citizens, especially infants, children and pregnant women.
4) To prevent the wireless/telecom industry through its lobbying organizations from persuading EU officials to make decisions about further propagation of RF radiation including 5G in Europe.
5) To favor and implement wired digital telecommunication instead of wireless.” The 5G industry has cleverly distorted the argument of the anti 5G campaign, by lying. No one says 5G causes COVID-19. What is being said is that because 5G compromises our immune system, it increases the risk of being infected, becoming critically ill and dying of COVID-19. In other words, 5G facilitates the spread of COVID-19. It doesn’t cause it. It was most likely created in the USA. The 5G industry has distorted this scientific truth into some kind of indefensible claim. It’s a clever trick. This public relations move has now shifted all the focus from the evidence that 5G is likely to cause massive health complications. This is a propaganda war. The cell towers are going up as regulatory bodies relax rules to allow for the massive introduction and roll out of the technology during lockdowns. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.