The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned against using chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19 patients. | Photo: The Destin Log News reports indicating that South Africa (SA) will start participating within the next week in the Public Health Emergency Solidarity Trial (Global Solidarity Trial) that is a project of the World Health Organisation (WHO) to find an effective COVID-19 treatment, gives us great concern. WHO is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (Gates Foundation) which in turn is involved in a massive depopulation project in the global South, via their monster vaccines. On 9 April Black First Land First (BLF) wrote to President Ramaphosa and urged him to stop SA’s participation in the Global Solidarity Trial. Besides acknowledging receipt of our letter nothing further has been done by the president towards ending the use of our people as lab rats in the COVID-19 treatment trials BLF reiterates its condemnation of SA’s participation in the Global Solidarity Trial which is intended to ultimately justify the Gates sponsored vaccination of the population in the interests of profit. It’s a matter of public knowledge that the treatment options suggested for the process are, Remdesivir, lopinavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir with interferon beta-1a, and chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine. It’s instructive that on Friday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned against the use of the anti malaria drug chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 patients on the basis that their increased use could cause abnormal heart rhythms and rapid heart rate. The FDA further cautioned that these side effects could increase when chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are mixed with other drugs, such as azithromycin (antibiotic); and when administered to patients with pre-existing kidney and heart disease.
It is clear that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, which the FDA has found to have dangerous side effects, are constituent parts of the treatment options scheduled for use in the Global Solidarity Trial. In fact all the treatment options for use via the Global Solidarity Trial are promoted by the Gates Foundation, which in turn funds WHO, and hence suspicious. BLF calls for an end to the testing of Gates Foundation vaccines and treatment options for COVID-19 on South Africans. In view of the FDA’s finding that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine have dangerous side effects our call is even more urgent. BLF demands that the Ramaphosa government immediately stops SA’s participation in the Global Solidarity Trial failing which we will have no option but to mobilse society for direct action to end the evil the process. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 26 April 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.