By Andile Mngxitama Cigarette smuggling makes a killing when lockdown rules prevent the sale of cigarettes in shops. Well just check who is opposing uplifting the alcohol ban. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has called on the government not to uplift the ban on the sale of alcohol for the duration of the lockdown. This follows the demand by the Gauteng liquor authority, that represents some 20 000 taverns and shebeens in Gauteng, to uplift the ban by 14 April failing which they will approach the court for relief. They have cited threats to their livelihoods as compelling reasons for abolishing the ban. The EFF is opposing abolition of the alcohol ban because if alcohol is allowed to be sold, then there’s no reason to maintain the ban on the sale of cigarettes. And if cigarettes sales are unbanned, then the cigarette smuggling business (Carnilinx) of Adriano Mazzoti will suffer. The connection between Mazzotti and the EFF is significant in understanding the party’s opposition to the unbanning of alcohol and by extension, cigarettes. Remember: i. Mazzotti paid for EFF’s registration in the amount R200,000 to contest the 2014 elections;
ii. Mazzotti’s tobacco smuggling business, Carnilinx, gave Malema a loan of R1 million to assist with paying his tax debt., a fact that Malema has not disputed; and
iii. in accepting a loan of R1 million for his tax debt, and R200,000 for EFF to contest the 2014 elections, Malema accepted the proceeds of crime, including tobacco trafficking. Black First Land First (BLF) has already charged Mazzotti on 28 July 2018 at the CR Swartz Police Station in Durban, for tobacco trafficking, money laundering, fraud, corruption, bribery and tax evasion in this regard. The SAPS has since put this case under the table for obvious reasons. Making money out of the Covid-19 pandemic is cruel. No it’s not alcohol abuse that the EFF is concerned about. It’s the profits from cigarette smuggling that they benefit from. Right now illicit traders have a monopoly and the prices must have shot up on the parallel market. Just saying check for yourself… Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.