By Andile Mngxitama The New World Order (NWO) language and belief is deeply conservative and disabling. It runs the risk of concealing how the same old capitalist, imperialist, patriarchal, racist system functions by assigning to some shadowy forces the powers beyond the ordinary and thereby making organising against the global capitalist system (imperialism) virtually impossible. What is new about the Rockefellers, Rothschilds, and their local representatives like the Oppenheimers and Ruperts? Is there no world order (global capitalism) right now that they are in control of through their money? I’m resisting the mythologisation of global capital into some unknown super power beyond our immediate grasp. Capitalism is an invisible system only becuase it has become normalised and it’s pervasive (it’s everywhere). What’s happening now with pandemics and technological explosion is the madness of capitalism which is not new at all. Capitalism, to sustain itself, needs constant innovation both at the hardware (production) and software (ideology to justify itself) levels. We must be careful of the psychological consequences of being colonized. Often the NWO discourse strikes me as a reflection of the state of mind of the colonised. Frantz Fanon has already told us that the colonized native, to avoid fighting the settler conjures up a force which is even more frightening than the settler, the zombie. So the native channels all her/his energy into fighting the zombies instead of the settler. In South Africa (SA) we must not allow ourselves to be confused by how the Ramaphosa government is treating both the COVID-19 and the 5G technology. We must pay attention to simple concrete evidence right in front of our eyes instead of focusing on mythological forces. The power of global capitalism is it’s capacity to blind us to things that are right in front of us. Also because we are ourselves implicated in propping the capitalist order up, we often cover up our responsibility in giving it power by mythologizing it. For instance, people complaining about the implications of COVID-19 and the coming vaccines; or the rapid roll out of the 5G technology by Patrice Motsepe et al, are generally those that voted for Cyril Ramaphosa, or political parties who are friends of Motsepe, or are sponsored by Ramaphosa. The Democratic Party (DA) has never hidden the fact that it is for white monopoly capital (WMC). We all know that some political parties ask for money from Johann Rupert and drink the wines of Rupert & Rothschild at their functions. You know that they work together with the DA calling it the better devil. These parties have said not one word about how Ramaphosa is allowing WMC to profit from the COVID-19 pandemic. Ramaphosa was given R1 billion to buy the ANC Nasrec conference so as to become the President of SA. We all know this. There’s no mystery there. What we should be saying is, “damn they played us.” They made us think that Jacob Zuma was the problem. And most still don’t want to take responsibility for their own actions in strengthening the hand of the enemy. The enemy is not some shadowy global government. It is white supremacy that translates as WMC in the economic sphere owning businesses like Shoprite Checkers and Pick n Pay. This is the ruling class (constituting the powerful elite) that controls the state. Parliament is supposed to be the defender of the people against the abuse of the powerful elite. Instead the powerful elite has bought parliament and made the representatives of the poor, addicts to the lifestyle that the same enemy provides. Why would a leader of the poor accept membership at the exclusive Inanda country club in Sandton, for instance? The point I’m making is simple. The current world order is the problem. The idea that we must fear a NWO, is conservative and misleading because it suggests that the current order is somehow not as bad as it actually is. The status qou is the problem. We know who owns it and how they sustain it through the control of those that we often give political power to. What Bill Gates is doing is the mere extension and intensification of the current system. It’s not the first time that this has happened. The introduction of mass machines at the beginning of the 19th century also caused havoc with the lives of people. In Europe it gave rise to the Luddite movement which destroyed the machines at night in defence of workers who were being replaced by them. Capitalists won. The machine became the main factor of production. In short, there is no deep dark secret government controlling our lives via mass remote control. We need to destroy the current world order for a new world order of the people who are being oppressed. To get there, we need to know who the enemy is, how their system of power works, and how we have assisted to keep them in power. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.