Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. Photo credit: Drum By Andile Mngxitama White monopoly capital (WMC) uses these kinds of unflattering images to convey the message that they are no longer friends – I’m referring to the picture of Mbuyiseni Ndlozi used as a feature image in the article by Lia Snijman titled “EFF, Ndlozi have twenty-four hours to pay damages to journalists” which was published in the Daily Maverick on 24 January 2020. At the time of their Zuma Must Go campaign, the Reds of London were the darlings of the WMC media. When Black First Land First (BLF) confronted Stratcom racists, the Reds of London called us “Gupta militias”. They then helped WMC to shut down ANN7. Now that they are no longer relevant and Pravin Gordhan wants them in jail, they will be losing all their cases, as is the case currently. Remember how they won against Zuma? Anyway, one day I will write about how the Wits university racist lecturers used the Ice Boy to defend their racism when I condemned them in my talk in 2010 during the South African Sociological Association (SASA) conference. I remember that after my intervention where I attacked SASA for being anti black and colonial, the white professors were paralyzed. In an attempt to silence me the young chap, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, stood up and said that the professors must not be shamed and that they have a role to play blah blah… During the break after my talk Professor Sheila Mentjies walked towards me with the Ice Boy under her arm and told me; “this is the future”. He smiled like a house negro with no irony at all that a racist white woman has assigned him as the future to counter my decolonial attack. Iceboyism was born that day. Anyway, I subsequently wrote a piece blasting SASA again. It was published in the now defunct Saturday paper, “The Weekender”. I did an Archie Mafeje on sociology. The short piece caused chaos in the academy. People were forced to denounce me. My comrade Prishani Naidoo wrote a piece of denunciation in the Sociological Review titled “three thousand words on racism” – I think it’s still available online. On the other hand, I got calls from the doyens of SASA, Professors Eddie Webster and Jackie Cock – I respect Prof Cock as a scholar. They were livid. I didn’t know at the time that my private communication with a black brother, who sold me out, had been shared in the whole SASA email list. I had called him names and also said a few nasty things about the white racist sociology he was defending. The thing is, it was a chat between us and he went and snitched on me. Anyway, Eddie was condescending by even telling me that he knew Biko. Lol, I hear that a lot. Prof Cock said that they will open the debate on racism at the next SASA conference and I will be invited. It never happened! Back at Wits, the tutors and students were discussing the piece on “The Weekender”. So to counter all that, the Wits Sociology Department started a seminar series on race and invited the Ice Boy to lead it. It was open season attack on my position. I was never asked to come and defend my take. Then at the launch of “Blacks Can’t Be Racist” during the Jozi Book Fair in Newtown, the Ice Boy tried again to defend the white agenda. I was convinced he was sent by the Wits liberals. Anyway I then sent an email to the Ice Boy, warning him that they are soon going to turn on him like they did with Prof Gates who had allowed himself to be used as a post race Ice Boy in the USA. Soon thereafter they indeed started to frustrate the Ice Boy. I sent him another note saying I hate to say “I told you so”. I hoped that he had learnt his lessons. To cut the long story short, in between he discovered Frantz Fanon through Peter Hudson (how bizarre); and I invited him to join the Reds to which he resisted for a while (I will tell the full story another time). But his take on Fanon was too white and liberal – like singing about taking Azania with the Freedom Charter. I never agreed and I told him so. The moral of the story is this: the Ice Boy has always been ready to serve the white agenda and they always come for him. A blank… Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.