By Andile Mngxitama The Zuma/Gupta vs white monopoly capital (WMC)/CR17 antagonism is the contemporary manifestation of the historical unresolved battle between native and settler in occupied Azania. This battle does take different forms at given junctures without alteration of its essence as essentially a battle for national liberation. If the Zuma/Gupta axis of the antagonism prevailed, it would have opened up the possibility to advance more towards the resolution of the historical question with the fight now being over the interpretation and implementation of the minimum program called radical economic transformation (RET). With the current reality of the triumph of the WMC/CR17 axis, it means that there has been no advance at all. In fact we are seeing reversals even of the minimal gains of post 1994. The institutionalization of looting by WMC and the assault on popular classes and on any progress is deepening. The WMC/CR17 power configuration is dedicated to only one goal: PROFITS! The Zuma/Gupta axis had no possibility to advance without carrying with it the demands of the popular classes, hence RET. To consolidate, it would have to make concessions of redistribution and guarantees on the job front. Now there is even no scope to call for a moratorium on the job blood bath. It is for these reasons that no one fighting for change can remain neutral in the ongoing antagonism. Many so called revolutionaries are waiting for perfect conditions to conduct a revolution. They can’t see that those conditions are unfolding right in front of our eyes. The WMC/CR17 axis is not finished. They need to neutralize Jacob Zuma completely because he remains the main threat to their project in the short term. But it’s also neutralizing anyone within the RET circle who has some capability to organize a fight back. The banning of Black First Land First (BLF) is therefore not a coincidence. We got to get these dynamics right. It’s a protracted war this… Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.