By Andile Mngxitama “No one will really understand politics until they understand that politicians are not trying to solve our problems. They are trying to solve their own problems—of which getting elected and re-elected are number one and number two. Whatever is number three is far behind.” –  Thomas Sowell We are vehement that we are not politicians. Our end goal is to end politics. That’s why we say, our approach is “anti-politics-political engagement”. This is the notion of using politics to end politics. In this context the Thomas Sankara Oath, as a starting point, seeks to force politicians to be ordinary people with certain responsibilities. In the long run a people’s state should be about efficient administration so as to ensure that the needs of the people are met. No one knows who the president of Switzerland is, but it’s one of the top 10 country in the world. Switzerland rotates its president annually. Why? Because it has almost standardized governance. Also, its citizens are not shy to call for referendums. Politicians are evil people who use the poor for their own benefit. A politician is a person who will take the votes of the poor, give them to land thieves, and call these thieves the “better devil”. It’s true that politicians care for being reelected more than anything else. Where did the millions of rands to bamboozle the poor to vote for them come from for the last elections? We are not politicians. We seek to end the hypocrisy of politics. That’s why we engage in politics to end politics. We enter politics without being politicians. Little wonder that they made sure that Black First Land First (BLF) does not go to parliament. If BLF were in parliament it would ask: If you give the workers a minimum wage of R3500, why can’t the same wage apply for MPs? Or, is the price of bread different for the workers as compared to the MPs? We are about “anti-politics-political engagement”. We aren’t politicians… Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.