Photo credit: BizNews By BO Staff Writer Gwede Mantashe is clear. He wants to lead Eskom. He wants the power utility to be placed in his Department of Mineral Resources and Energy and to ultimately report to him. The African National Congress (ANC) National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting this weekend is set to decide on who will lead Eskom. There’s a strong belief that President Cyril Ramaphosa will not fire the Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. Reports of a meeting between Ramaphosa and Gordhan on Monday suggest that Ramaphosa is committed to continue supporting Gordhan. Mantashe is the ANC chair and as such is vested with more political power than Gordhan is. He is said to have the support of Paul Mashatile (ANC Treasurer-General) and Bathabile Dlamini (ANC Women’s League president). According to an open letter to ANC members earlier last week Ramaphosa sees the attempts to remove Gordhan (which it is predicted he will not accede to) as part of the plot to prevent him from wining presidency for the second-term. The Ramaphosa faction has reportedly been weakened by the government’s incapacity to address the Eskom crisis. Evidently removing Gordhan will clear the path for Ramaphosa to fall. An insider of the ANC’s top six in the executive has reportedly confirmed the party’s commitment to the “government’s special paper on Eskom released by Gordhan late last year”. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, commented on this issue on social media. “My prediction is that the ANC NEC will in its statement affirm its confidence in Pravin Gordhan and his program to “stabilise” the SOEs and fight “State Capture”. The Radical Economic Transformation (RET) forces inside the NEC may be putting up some brave fight but the Stellenbosch faction is in charge. We can help the RET forces by taking up our own initiatives to make it known that #PravinMustGoNow“,  he said “If they move Eskom to Gwede, it will mean that Pravin/Ramaphosa will no longer have the majority both in the NEC and the top 6. Pravin could sulk away but I don’t think Stellenbosch will allow that. The problem is that both factions are Stellenbosch compliant. The demotion of Pravin, if it were to happen, would signify a shift of position within same bracket though. Also do not make the mistake of thinking that Stellenbosch may not be changing position itself. If Stellenbosch thinks that Pravin is a liability, they will drop him like nothing. But I don’t think that we are there yet. The first concrete sign of movement in that direction would be if Eskom is moved from Pravin. I’m not convinced that would happen. Lets see. I shall go live tonight to breakdown some of these shocking developments including the implications of Mabuza’s cousin scoring a R11 billion tender at Eskom”, Mngxitama added. No related posts.