Image credit: SAHO By Andile Mngxitama Jacob Zuma was considered okay in so long as he didn’t touch the economy and land. When he decided “fuck it I’m going for the land and economy”, the whole shit started. The owners of the economy started a nasty fight back. They even forgave Julius Malema and set him up as their crusader against corruption, despite his Limpopo looting spree. They made the unauthorized expenditure of R7 million pertaining to Nkandla (the amount that Zuma had to pay back from the calculations made by his bitter rival Pravin Gordhan) the biggest corruption in South Africa (SA). The media then went against anyone they thought could help Zuma fight. They used their bulldogs, the Louis Vuitton addicts in red overalls, to attack the Guptas. At the same time Lonmin, the company that instructed Cyril Ramaphosa to call the cops to kill workers in Marikana for demanding a living wage, was not only allowed to continue exploiting workers, it was given government money. The demonization was vile. The Louis Vuitton addicts attacked ANN7 journalists. Naspers chair, Koos Bekker, pulled the plug and gave the ANN7 slot to eNCA light. They employed economic terrorism against perceived Zuma supporters. To this end, and amongst other things, they closed down the Gupta businesses and bank accounts without any court orders or any proven wrong doing. They also employed the strategy of political instability, via local political parties and civil society organizations, to create hostility against Zuma. We can go on about BRICS and others and about the Mining Charter. But the real trigger was when Glencore lost Optimum mine, which gave the Gupta linked companies the opportunity to supply a mere 5% of Eskom’s coal needs. To this end, the Guptas out smarted the Swiss giant Glencore and bought their ailing company which was trying to blackmail Eskom by withdrawing its coal with the hope of hitting SA with another outage and then to be able to name the price it wants to sell coal to Eskom which would have been outside the agreement it had. White monopoly capital (WMC) wanted the Guptas out of mining so that white dominance, which supplies 95% of ESKOM’s coal needs, over the sector could be protected. Basically, WMC took fright and pumped up the action. Zuma went for Gordhan and removed him as Minister of Finance. To rescue WMC, Malema was called to lead a march hand in hand with other pro WMC entities, which he did. So today we are sitting with this shit and we all forget how we got here! Remember Gordhan was gone! Who brought him back? Loadsheding! I will definitely do a program on my YouTube Chanel, “The Black Perspective”, on the “black defenders of WMC”. Don’t forget to subscribe! You may do so via this link, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vcSlkN8f-Lg Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.