Photo credit: REUTERS/Mike Hutchings By BO Staff Writer Between July 2004 and 2007 Nelson Chamisa, the president of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) is reported to have begged the US government to invade Zimbabwe with Special Forces and topple the Zanu-PF led government. Chamisa also pleaded with the US government to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe‘s Reserve Bank so as to heighten the MDCs chances of taking power. He further asked for certain key government officials to be prosecuted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) which in turn was established to prosecute persons accused of committing serious crimes such as crimes against humanity, genocide, and war crimes. Chamisa‘s pleas were in response to the US Ambassador to Harare, Christopher Dell, asking him what he needed the US to do to secure his ascendency to power. Chamisa was, at the relevant time, the MDC Youth leader and Kuwadzana legislator. Leaked Wikileaks cables sent from Harare (via the US Embassy) to Washington’s state department suggest that Chamisa told Dell that the “Mugabe must go” campaign was counterproductive to the opposition party’s agenda as it strengthened Zanu-PF’s resolve to fight the MDC which was then led by Morgan Tsvangirai. Chamisa is further reported to have canvassed the Eastern European countries, during his recent trip there, to impose more sanctions on Zimbabwe.  In the meanwhile the ruling party (Zanu-PF) has vowed to ensure the enactment of the Patriot Act, which would criminalize and penalize the actions of those who called for sanctions against Zimbabwe. Andile Mngxitama, the President of Black First Land First (BLF) took to social media on this issue. “Pretty boy Chamisa and MDC aren’t different from Malema and the Reds of London. On the other hand Mnangagwa is no different from Cyril Ramaphosa. Right now there is one party of imperialism in Zimbabwe. That’s why they must be forced into a political settlement”, Mngxitama said. Moreover, “[w]e don’t share the notion that Mnangagwa is anti imperialist, he’s not. This government of ZanuPF is not anti imperialist whatsoever. It’s a false notion to claim today that there’s a fundamental ideological difference between Mnangagwa and Chamisa. ZanuPF has to listen to all the voices of Zimbabwe and get back on the revolutionary path. And Chamisa must stop going to America and calling for sanctions. No one should go to America to call for sanctions. We condemn the sanctions against Zimbabwe. No country, no matter what difficult internal processes it may be undergoing, should be subjected to sanctions”, he counseled. “The circle of opposition parties across the African continent making common cause with imperialism is consistent often even against another faction of imperialism. The Pretty boy has not gone left after all that time. And the current ZanuPF top leaders are themselves Commonwealth and World Bank stooges. We agree with Mugabe when he said that he won’t vote for his tormentors”, he elaborated. “Mnangagwa must make peace with Chamisa under an anti imperialist program that puts blacks first. He must cease attacking the Mugabe loyalists who fled Zimbabwe after the coup. He must allow all exiles to return and grant a blanket amnesty to those accused or convicted of politically motivated crimes. A revolutionary transitional government of national unity, which will put the people first, must be formed. All police brutality and state violence must end”, Mngxitama said in closing. No related posts.