By Andile Mngxitama I now think Umhlobo Wenene is perhaps the worst pro white monopoly capital (WMC) propaganda machine in black radio. I have been making some observations. I believe there is a systematic stupification of the listeners. I got the worst experience of open hate and hostility from the listeners and anchors of that radio station. I do every black radio station so I should know. The second hostile black radio was Motsweding. Ukhozi, Thobela and Ligwalagwala were always respectful, engaging and reasonable. Lesedi was and is, even now, more positive. I often look at a surname of a hateful posting and wonder if it’s the fruit of the propaganda work of Umhlobo Wenene. They really hate the Guptas and Jacob Zuma. And they find the idea of pushing the blacks only agenda evil. I was on Lesedi last month I think. During a live broadcast of a debate, 8 out of 10 callers supported Black First Land First (BLF) against the racist Freedom Front Plus (FF+). With Umhlobo Wenene the situation would have been bad for BLF. So there is major work needed to reverse this damage done under the pretext of spreading information. It’s a big concern. Motsweding is also less virulent on its opposition. And if Umhlobo Wenene is ‘the champion of hostility to the black agenda’ in black radio then that title in English radio certainly goes to Radio 702. They are so hostile and hateful that they can have a whole program inviting callers to insult and vilify you without affording you the right of reply. Eusebius McKaiser hates BLF openly and so does Redi Tlhabi. The next hater is Power FM. This was especially the case during the time of Onkgopotse JJ Tabane. It was just a jungle of hate. Kaya FM is good. But John Perlman? Anyway, is he still there? He never invited me but I do know why. It’s not his fault. SAFM and YFM have been the least hostile. But since whites have taken over the morning show at SAFM, BLF hasn’t been engaged directly (lol). Good news is that there are many community radio stations which are really progressive. They aren’t allergic to the black agenda. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization No related posts.