Pravin Gordhan. Image: Trevor Samson Many people have asked questions about the petition launched by Black First Land First (BLF) on Monday 13 January to get 10 000 signatures towards telling Cyril Ramaphosa that it’s time for Pravin Gordhan to be released from his post as Minister. Here are some of the frequently asked questions and the corresponding responses 1. How do I sign the petition? Click on the link and it will give you the steps to append your signature. It’s a matter of ultimately clicking on the “submit” tap to confirm. It’s a simple process. 2. What will happen to the petitions once the target of 10 000 signatures is met? BLF shall hand deliver the results of the petition to Cyril Ramaphosa, to demand that he acts. 3. Will Ramaphosa act? This depends on other related actions which we shall undertake to support the 10 000 signatures. 4. Why Pravin Gordhan? Because Pravin Gordhan is conflicted. He has shares in all the major companies, more so those that stand to benefit from the privatization of Eskom. So he has no interest in ending loadshedding. In fact, loadshedding is good for the argument in favor of privatization. 5. Is the current loadshedding a deliberate creation of Pravin Gordhan? The answer has to be yes because he has taken such dubious steps that suggest that he wants loadshedding. He previously appointed the chair of the Eskom board who had no clue about the energy sector. He has subsequently appointed a white man who has just ran down a company. So it’s logical to conclude that Pravin Gordhan wants loadshedding because it’s good for business to privatize Eskom. 6. Can loadshedding be stopped? Absolutely yes! The super trio Brian Molefe, Mashela Koko and Dr Ben Ngubane had previously stopped loadshedding and turned Eskom into a profit making organization. It’s easy to let the super trio return to Eskom to sort out the mess. They have done it before. 7. Will my signature help end loadshedding? Yes! It will play a big part in ensuring that the spotlight is on Pravin Gordhan and Ramaphosa can’t ignore 10 000 voices. 8. How else do I help to make sure that the petition is successful? Share it with others and ask them to sign and also share. It this way more people can see it and support it. If you haven’t already signed the online petition, you may do so via the following link, http://chng.it/bGWxxCxN Lets all tell President Ramaphosa that enough is enough, #PravinMustGoNow Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 16 January 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website. No related posts.