Image credit: VOC News By BO Staff Writer The feature picture is of a march to Parliament in Cape Town on 15 December 2015 calling on President Zuma to step down from office. Similar marches were held in all the major cities of the country. A striking feature of the marches on this day was the low turnout of black and the predominance white protesters. Also significant and unforgettable was the presence of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), that claims to be socialist, at these marches. It was a time of huge WMC (and imperialist) sponsored political instability driven by local political parties and civil society organization’s. Under the guise of fighting corruption the public was mobilized via the white owned media to create hostility against President Zuma who was pushing a Radical Economic Transformation (RET) agenda and seen to be too close to BRICS and the Guptas. So we had corrupt agents of regime change leading the supposed fight against corruption. We shall not forget how white monopoly capital (WMC) manipulated the currency in December 2015 to force President Zuma to fire DesVan Rooyen from the post of Finance Minister and to hire Pravin Gordhan in the same post. Gordhan was the candidate of WMC. The country lost R500 billion in this time through manipulation of the currency, More specifically on 10 December 2015 the currency went into free fall evidently losing around 5% of its value. Moreover on 11 December 2015 the currency fell to R16 to the US$ and R24 to the British pound. This was a huge concern for white capital and hence the loud calls for Zuma to go, at that time. Lest we forget, here’s a basic chronology of events around that time: a. 25 May 2014: President Jacob Zuma transferred Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan to the portfolio of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs and appointed the then deputy Finance Minister, Nhlanhla Nene, as the Finance Minister. b. 27 August 2015: Nene refused to sign the financial authority to the US$100bn deal between SA and Russia to build nuclear power stations in SA. c. 27 November 2015: Rating agencies (Standard & Poor’s and Fitch) each downgraded South Africa’s investment status taking it to the tipping point of ‘junk status’. d. 9 December 2015: Zuma replaced Nene with Des van Rooyen who was previously a member of the Parliamentary Finance Committee. On the same day Zuma facilitated the passing of the Russian nuclear deal. e. 10 December 2015: Johan Rupert accompanied by white bankers gives instruction to Zuma via Ramaphosa to fire Des Van Rooyen and hire either Ndlandla Nene or Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance. f. 10 December 2015: The currency goes into free fall apparently losing around 5% of its value. g. 11 December 2015: The currency falls to R16 to the US$ and R24 to the British pound. This is a huge concern for white capital and hence the loud calls for Zuma to go. h. 13 December 2015: An urgent meeting is convened between the leaders of white industry (being Barclays Africa Group Chief Executive Officer, Maria Ramos; Goldman Sachs’ South Africa head Colin Coleman; Investec Bank’s global CEO, Stephen Koseff; Imperial Holdings’ CEO, Mark Lamberti; Sanlam CEO Ian Kirk; Business Leadership South Africa chairperson Bobby Godsell; Toyota Europe CEO Johan van Zyl and FirstRand CEO Johan Burger) and ANC leaders who subsequently urged Zuma to reverse the Finance Minister’s appointment so as to ostensibly save the country from economic meltdown. Zuma then announces the sacking of Des Van Rooyen and appointment of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance. i. December 2015: As pointed out above, manipulation of the currency in December 2015 to force President Zuma to hire Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance cost the country R500 billion in two days. This is massive corruption that has been swept under the table by the white owned media. In March 2016 BLF laid criminal charges, as well as lodged a complaint with the Office of the Public Protector (OPP) and requested President Zuma to institute a Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) – in respect of corruption (which includes state capture) by Johann Rupert and the 8 others referred to in (h) herein. According to BLF nothing has come of the criminal case and a submission will shortly be made to the State Capture Commission in this regard. No related posts.