US flag torn up during a protest on January 3, 2020 in Tehran following the assassination of Major General Qasem Soleimani by the US in Baghdad. Photo credit: ATTA KENARE By BO Staff Writer US President, Donald Trump, plans to send about 3000 soldiers to the Middle East who will join 750 forces already deployed to Kuwait early this week. This follows the assassination of Iranian Quds Force Commander Qasem Soleimani via a U.S. airstrike in Iraq’s capital, Baghdad. In the meantime the U.S. has reportedly sent approximately 14,000 additional soldiers to the Middle East since May last year. Barham Salih, Iraq’s President, denounced the US terrorist attack on Iraq. “Iraq must first put its national interest and avoid the tragedies of the armed conflict that have plagued it for four decades,” Salih said, asking his people “to be united to protect the national interest, sovereignty, and security”, President Salih said. Iraqi general Othman al-Ghanmi has declared that Iraq “is ready for any of the consequences” that may result from the US attack. According to Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, there was no consultation with Congress regarding the U.S. onslaught on Iraq. “The Trump Administration has conducted strikes in Iraq targeting high-level Iranian military officials and killing Iranian Quds Force Commander Qasem Soleimani without an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) against Iran,” Pelosi explained. “The full Congress must be immediately briefed on this serious situation and the next steps under consideration by the Administration, including the significant escalation of the deployment of additional troops to the region”, she elaborated. Eliot Engel, the Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, cautioned about the uncertain repercussions of Donald Trump’s decision to instruct the assassination of General Soleimani. “I will not regret his death. However, many will consider him a martyr, I am very concerned about the impact of the attack,” Engel said. No related posts.