Photo credit: TimesLIVE The news that young Enoch Mpianzi was put on a self made raft and left into a natural stream or river without a life jacket, during an orientation program in Brits, is shocking beyond belief. If this is true then it’s nothing short of gross negligence which invokes the historical race question. Would the school put a white boy without a life jacket into such a perilous situation without the knowledge of his swimming capabilities? In fact no one should be put in harm’s way that way. As an organization that puts black people’s lives first and in the context of the historical reality that black lives don’t matter in a society organized by white power; its hard for us not to conclude that the young boy Mpianzi died because he is black. The Parktown Boys’ High School, where 13 year old Mpianzi was grade 8 pupil, must take full responsibility for their criminal conduct that caused his death. Their unbecoming conduct amounts to gross negligence at the very least and murder in the historical context. If this was indeed about team building and group activity surely the team members and those in charge will notice if anyone is in trouble. There are so many other questions that this unfortunate situation poses, including: i. Why was the absence of Mpianzi not detected by his fellow team members?
ii. Where were the lifeguards?
iii. When was the headcount done?
iv, Exactly when was it discovered that Mpianzi was missing? Black lives must matter in South Africa. For far too long we speak in hushed tones to foster false unity and collegiality. This is costly to black people. Enough is enough! Black First Land First (BLF) shall closely monitor this unfortunate development to ensure justice is done. This was an unnecessary loss of life. We send our heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Mpianzi. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 19 January 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website. No related posts.