Image credit: SA History Online By Andile Mngxitama The Africa National Congress (ANC) of 1912, known at that time as the South African Native National Congress (SANNC), was a blacks only organization. The ANC of 2020 is white controlled and was born with the Freedom Charter in 1955 in Kliptown, Soweto. It’s a bit irritating. There are people who can’t make a distinction between the BLACKS ONLY ANC which existed from 1912 up to 1955, and the post Freedom Charter ANC. Some of these people also pretend not to know that the ANC was forced by whites like Joe Slovo to finally accept white members only in 1985. The Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) had accepted white members already in 1959 when it was formed. These people just condemn without honest analysis. Black leaders inside the ANC, like Jacob Zuma, fought the hijacking of their organization by whites. After the Sobukwe cohort left the ANC, there were even bigger and more sustained battles inside the ANC resisting white take over. The “Gang of 8” fought for almost a decade untill whites kicked them out in 1975. But they still had some influence inside the ANC, so the whites like Slovo forced them out of exile. After they returned to South Africa (SA), Umkhonto weSizwe (MK) was sent by those whites to assassinate them. Black nationalism inside the ANC was killed by whites who came into the organization as communists. The ANC was formed to fight for black liberation as a blacks only organization. The ANC of today is not the pre 1955 ANC of Anton Muziwakhe Lembede and Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe. Zuma represents the Lembede-Sobukwe line of black nationalism but see how he is rejected for that. The current ANC is anti black because the white usurpers took it over. So the ANC was not always anti black. It was hijacked! Zuma’s Radical Economic Transformation (RET) agenda was part of the attempt to blacken the ANC again. In fact one of the contemporary intellectual labours is to pose the question of how we must push the ANC back to the black agenda from without. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.