By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: As Black First Land First (BLF) we have been left with no other option but to conclude that the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture (Zondo Commission) is a weapon against Radical Economic Transformation (RET) to advance the interests of white monopoly capital (WMC). Over R4.3 billion was disappeared by corruption under his watch at the National Treasury. He instituted an internal audit which confirmed that some of the companies he has shares in were implicated in the corruption of tenders. Pravin Gordhan unlawfully suppressed the audit. He didn’t take the necessary action that he was legally obliged to do. Furthermore, BLF has acquired a forensic audit which gives further details of the corruption and the parties involved. This forensic audit report too was supressed by Pravin Gordhan. Yet again he broke the law and engaged in obvious criminal acts relating to state capture. BLF was given a date to appear before Judge Zondo following it’s submission to the commission on 28 November 2018 regarding, amongst other things, the role and interests of Pravin Gordhan in state capture relating to the said disappearance of the over R4.3 billion from Nation Treasury. After a legitimate postponement of the meeting with the assigned evidence leader, Advocate Ngcekeshe, the commission has been stalling and avoiding BLF. The assigned date came and passed. BLF has written four letters to the commission in this regard with no response. The Zondo Commission is selective and biased. Judge Zondo seems to have given into the pressure of London and Stellenbosch. It seems like he is protecting Pravin Gordhan. In 2020 BLF will take both legal and direct action to get the Zondo Commission to do its work and to stop acting like Johann Rupert’s kangaroo court. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 5 January 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.