By BO Staff Writer Vladimir Ilich Lenin (April 22, 1870 – January 21, 1924), is the father of the Great October Russian Revolution of 1917. Via the Bolshevik Party, he led the Russian people through the first successful socialist revolution in history. Lenin’s great contributions include his discourse on the transition of capitalism to monopoly capitalism and imperialism, the right of oppressed nations to self-determination from a socialist perspective, the necessity in a time of crisis of converting the imperialist war into a civil war so as to defeat the capitalist class, the importance and key role of revolutionary leadership, and the necessity of building a party of professional revolutionaries. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, paid a fitting tribute to Lenin. Taking to social media he said: “January 21 marked 96 years since Lenin died. This Russian revolutionary is one of the greatest scientists and artists of the revolutionary process. If we want to understand the state and revolution, we must study Lenin. A determined coward, shivering with terror, holed up in a Moscow hotel, he implored the Bolsheviks to launch the revolution, because tomorrow may be too late. If the revolution failed he would certainly be put against the wall and shot. His determination to see the revolution was bigger than his fear for his own life. Lenin shares with Steve Biko an obsession with “Consciousness”. For him it’s “proletarian Consciousness”, for Biko it’s “Black Consciousness”. He died young, at 52, mostly from exhaustion. He worked himself to death for the revolution and the liberation of his people. To Vladimir Lenin!!!” Through the experience of the Russian Revolution, Lenin inspired the oppressed people of the world towards achieving  liberation, clarified the function of the capitalist state, and made intelligible the key elements of a socialist revolution. After years of senseless killings of workers and destitution of the people through World War 1, Russia was thrust into a profound crisis. In February 1917, the tsar was overthrown and in October that same year, Lenin led an insurrection. That’s how the capitalist state was toppled by the Bolsheviks and a workers’ state was established to defend the revolution. No related posts.