Qassem Soleimani at the International Day of Mosque | Image: Tasnim News Agency By BO Staff Writer “The commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ (IRGC) Quds Force, Major-General Qassem Soleimani, has long been considered a top enemy target for the U.S. and their allies in the MIddle East. … It was no secret that Soleimani had a large following, especially in the Shia Muslim community; however, he was also the mastermind of several operations against the U.S. Armed Forces and their allies. Soleimani was accused by the U.S. of attempting to threaten Israel’s safety by empowering Shia paramilitary groups like Hezbollah. Then, last Friday, a couple of rockets were fired at Iraq’s K-1 Base, where one U.S. contractor was killed and several others were wounded. The attack would prompt Washington to accuse Tehran of orchestrating the attack, later leading to the U.S. military attacking five bases belonging to Kata’eb Hezbollah. As a result of this attack, at least 30 fighters from Kata’eb Hezbollah and their allied forces were killed, including one field commander. The following day, a mass protest was held outside the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. At this protest, the demonstrators bypassed the first security checkpoint, making their way to the diplomtic mission’s walls before nightfall. Another mass protest was reported to have taken place the following day, eventually leading to the U.S.’ surprise attack on Qassem Soleimani’s vehicle near the Baghdad International Airport. For the U.S., Qassem Soleimani was a major threat to their forces in Syria and Iraq. He was killed alongside the Kata’eb Hezbollah commander Abu Mahdi Al-Mohandis, leaving the Quds Force with no leader. In Iran, Qassem Soleimani was a revered military commander that will be remembered for his bravery and intelligence on the battlefield” – “Who Was Qassem Soleimani and Why Was He Targeted by the US?” Read the full article via the link,
https://www.telesurenglish.net/news/Who-Was-Qassem-Soleimani-and-Why-Was-He-Targeted-by-the-US-20200103-0001.html No related posts.