Mlungisi ‘Professor’ Ngubane has blasted Mamelodi Sundowns head coach Pitso Mosimane following his attack on Orlando Pirates midfielder Fortune Makaringe for ‘show boating’ in Sundowns’ 1 – 0 loss to Pirates last night. “What Pitso said didn’t and still doesn’t sit well with me. All that the boy from Pirates was doing was expressing himself, because of the confidence he had and self-belief. Pitso criticised him and invited the attention for the boy to imply that what he did was wrong,” Ngubane told SoccerLaduma. “Pitso himself is coaching the Brazilians. Next thing, his player (Thapelo) Morena struggles to control the ball while on his own in front of him (Mosimane) on the line. I don’t know why Pitso is doing what he is doing. “He is copying this from coaches from places like Scotland who don’t use these skills. Coaches from England know about skills, because George Best and others used to play like that. I’m disappointed that we are killing our own. “I was very happy to see Makaringe doing what he did. He was entertaining people and they were leading (1-0). Furthermore, he had been part of the buildup to their goal earlier on. The boy performed that at the right time as there was no one putting him under pressure. He didn’t lose the ball, as he passed it to his teammate afterwards. “What is the problem with Pitso? Why is Pitso doing what he is doing? We used to play the same kind of football, were we crazy? Was Jomo Sono crazy? Was Teenage Dladla crazy? This is our football! Maybe playing in Africa has started to confuse him to a point that he has forgotten about where he comes from. I didn’t like what he did. Pirates were leading and were dominating Sundowns, who were trying to come back, and the boy is telling them, ‘Listen, you won’t come back. We are in control here. This is Orlando.’ “You perform those kind of skills to send different kind of messages. Sundowns were trying to take over the control of the game from Pirates and the boy performed that skill, and I couldn’t help but laugh and said, ‘This is the football we know’.” Reposted from Soccerzela. No related posts.