Image credit: thesouthafrican.com By BO Staff Writer Patrice Motsepe, African Rainbow Minerals CEO, has told the rightwing US President Donald Trump that he is loved by Africa. Some say it’s both humiliating and embarrassing the way Motsepe expressed himself to Trump. Many have taken to social media to denounce Motsepe’s conduct. Instead of condemning US imperialism currently run by the Trump administration, Motsepe’s message is that Africa loves both Trump and America and by extension what they stand for. Trump is responsible for the death, destruction and genocide of the oppressed people all over the world through his foreign policy approach. Earlier this month, the U.S. committed a major Trump sanctioned act of terrorism by assassinating the Iranian military commander Qassem Soleimani during its airstrike on Baghdad. Where was Motsepe’s outrage and denunciation on Thursday at the actions of Trump. Motsepe apparently became extremely excited and full of gratitude when Trump invited him to have dinner with him at the World Economic Forum in Davos. “…And all we wanted to say is that Africa loves America, Africa loves you. We want America to do well, we want you to do well. The success of America is the success of the rest of the world”, Motsepe said Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, condemned Motsepe’s conduct. He said that “Patrice loves Trump”. Reminded of the Botswana regime change allegations relating to the Motsepes he said: “When BLF asked about the Botswana diamonds, Motsepe took us to court to gag us. An overly excited dim witted judge was too impatient to grant Patrice Motsepe the order to censor BLF. We are barred by the courts to say anything about the diamonds of Botswana. Now we know the guy is friends with Trump. Guess who else he is friends with? Remember the Braamfontein meeting and no more talks of IPPs? Lets keep quiet before they take us to court again“. BLF had previously approached the Botswana Government in writing to speedily finalize the investigation into reports that Patrice Motsepe, had “donated R22 million to Venson-Moitoi’s campaign” which had allegedly “been smuggled into Botswana”. The black consciousness organization welcomed the decision of the BDP Government to impose travel restrictions on Bridgette Radebe who it alleged had mining interests in Botswana “following accusations of her being involved in a regime change campaign to remove President Masisi from power and replace him with Pelonomi Venson-Moitoi, who is backed by Masisi’s predecessor, Ian Khama”. “Brigette Motsepe“, it was further alleged, “is being used by imperialist interests to create hostility towards President Masisi in return for securing her own mining interests”. No related posts.