Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Image credit: Bongani Shilubane/ANA Black First Land First (BLF) believes that Cyril Ramaphosa is allowing or encouraging a witchhunt against the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. This is part of a vendetta against her for the decisions she has taken which adversely affect President Cyril Ramaphosa, Minister Pravin Gordhan, and in particular ABSA bank and the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). It can’t be a coincidence that the Public Protector is being attacked left, right and center. This is a well coordinated attack on the Public Protector by powerful forces. First it was parliament which concocted rules just to remove her from office. Now the Speaker of the National Assembly, Thandi Modise, has granted the racist Democratic Alliance (DA) their wish to institute proceedings to remove the Public Protector from office in terms of these new rules crafted to remove her. Then there is the Hawks chasing her on completely silly charges laid by racist organizations of land thieves. As if that is not enough, now the South African Revenue Service (SARS) is hounding her. This is nothing but a vengeful attack on the Public Protector . The Public Protector is being attacked for finding that Ramaphosa’s CR17 campaign may have broken the law. We now know that R1 billion was used to unduly influence the African National Congress (ANC) Nasrec conference. The Public Protector also found prima facie evidence of money laundering in relation to the CR17 campaign. In particular, she found that Ramaphosa lied to parliament about his dealings with his campaign. A by product of all this is that Gavin Watson is believed to be murdered to cover up the whole mess. The Public Protector has also found against Pravin Gordhan in the SARS based Rogue Unit saga. The illegal unit was used as a slush fund for friends over and above for illegally gathering information on opponents of white monopoly capital (WMC). The Public Protector also found that ABSA must pay back the money stolen from SARB. She has also recommended that SARB be transformed to serve the people. The above are the main reasons why they want her out. By not intervening to protect a Chapter 9 institution which is under attack, Ramaphosa is serving his own interests and those of his donors. Absa, as it has been revealed, is one of the donors of CR17. BLF calls on Ramaphosa to stop the witchhunt now! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 26 January 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from BLF website