Image credit: OHCHR By BO Staff Writer Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, has sent a letter to the United Nations (UN) Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Mr David Frost, asking him to disregard the racist ranting of Afriforum. “I write as one of the leaders of the organizations representing the survivors of colonialism and apartheid. It has come to our attention that a racist extremist group that masquerades as a civil rights organization has written to you to intervene in South Africa (SA)”, were Mngxitama‘s opening lines. Afriforum recently laid a complaint with the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights against the President, Cyril Ramaphosa, and Lindiwe Sisulu, the former Minister of International Relations and Cooperation. It has accused both Ramaphosa and Sisulu of “attempting to discredit AfriForum as a human rights defender and, in doing so, impairing the work that the organisation is doing to promote human and civil rights in South Africa.” “This group called Afriforum is nothing but a racist organization that states explicitly in its mission that it promotes the interests of settler colonialists who dispossessed us of our land and even instigated genocides against the indigenous population. We ask you to please not waste your time by entertaining this group’s wild and fabricated claims”, Mngxitama said. AfriForum’s accusation is based on Ramaphosa‘s remark at an interview in September 2018 with Bloomberg when he said that there was “no killing of farmers or white farmers in SA”. Ramaphosa’s spokesperson subsequently clarified that he was rebutting the U.S. President Trump’s claim of the “large-scale killing of white farmers” in SA. “Afriforum denies that apartheid is a crime against humanity despite the UN having declared that indeed apartheid is a crime against humanity. This same group is supporting the whites only racist enclave called Orania which is located in the Northern Cape Province of SA”, Mngxitama said. Moreover “Afriforum has been mobilizing funds to protect white farmers who murder innocent black children. Occasionally the racist outfit, in order to cover its racism, gives lip service to assisting black people”, he added.. Sisulu, it is alleged by AfriForum, accused them of spreading “misinformation” and lying about SA during their trip to the US in May 2018 when they made accusations of “gross human rights violations, particularly against minorities” in the country. “Sir, it’s a blatant lie that white farmers are a target of any orchestrated violence. This is a mirage, given the amount of violence generated by these white farmers against vulnerable black farm workers whom they treat as property. Just to give you a perspective – because of apartheid there is structural violence in the black community which remains excluded from the land, 25 years after democracy. This structural violence leads to 20 000 murders in SA annually. The last financial year statistics suggest that less than 100 of the 20 000 murdered were white farmers”, Mngxitama pointed out. “Afriforum is just a racist bunch of loud racists who believe that the world owes them by virtue of them merely being white. The UN shouldn’t waste its precious time and resources on a demented groupuscule of racists”, he advised. Read BLF’s full letter to the U.N. Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, via the link, https://blf.org.za/2020/01/22/blf-letter-to-un-to-ignore-racist-ranting-of-afriforum/ No related posts.