By Andile Mngxitama As part of the awakening process I shall launch a YouTube channel at the end of January. The promo will run soon. Please do subscribe. The channel will be educational and also agitational. The format will be flexible and will include round table discussions and even invited audiences. It will come out weekly. One of the panel discussions that I’m hoping to host will include young contemporary thinkers and revolutionaries. SBWL to have one with the Hen Mother Simthandile Tyhali, the Nonsensical Lion Thobani Zikalala, Kamvelihle Goba and Bonginkosi Khanyile. We need to debate the question of student activism, as well as blackness and the revolution. I also fancy a panel discussion on art, culture, revolution and love with the likes of Tumi Mogorosi, Mbe Mbhele, Athi Mongezeleli Joja and probably Brother Mpho Tinyiko Azah Mphago – here it could really be a festival. I do want to hear Tshepang Ramoba, and Samson Mnisi Unathi Slasha amongst others. We shall shall need management on this one. There will furthermore be provocations on God/s, Christianity, Blackness and Revolution. This one needs prayers – Nthabi Marope will be on it. We must also go into understanding violence in the black zone, feminism, blackness and revolution. One of the key participants I hope for is Ntombi Wonci. On health, corporate poisoning for profits, how big pharma makes us sick, and alternatives in health care, we hope to get Sindisiwe Sindz Wase Kapa to help us think through these. Can Michail Bakunin speak black? Kemokoenawamathole Msholozi Mathole will be on the hot seat… You are also invited to suggest topics and panelists. The channel will spend a lot of its time on unmasking white monopoly capital (WMC) and how it has captured the state and politics in South Africa. This is where the most labor will go. I’m looking forward to a productive year. We shall, alongside these efforts, be organizing. The Black First Land First (BLF) Special Policy Conference (SPC) held on 30 November last year, set a target of recruiting 100 000 members in good standing by December 2020. We must go to the ground! Land or Death! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.