Cradock Four By BO Staff Writer Following FW de Klerk’s recent denial that apartheid was a crime against humanity the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) is apparently now looking into a request to charge him for his involvement in the numerous murders of anti-apartheid leaders and other activists. To this end Yasmin Sooka (the former Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) commissioner) has indicated engaging the NDPP to pressurize her into speedily finalizing the relevant cases as the apartheid era perpetrators were dying. Two of the 20 cases that the Hawks and the NPA have reportedly prioritized involves the Cradock Four which relates to the murders of Matthew Goniwe, Fort Calata, Sparrow Mkhonto and Sicelo Mhlauli; and the Pebco Three assassinations in 1985 (regarding Sipho Hashe, Champion Galela and Qaqawuli Godolozi). It must be stated that from the 300 odd cases that were referred to the NPA by the TRC for further investigation and prosecution, no prosecution has followed. White monopoly capital (WMC) owned media (Mail & Guardian included) reports that Sooka; families of the deceased; and nongovernmental organisations have since 2003 reportedly lobbied for the re-opening of the cases. It conveniently forgets to mention that on 8 May 2017 Black First Land First (BLF) laid 22 criminal charges against FW De Klerk and 16 criminal charges against Adriaan Vlok at the South African Police Services (SAPS) in Buitekant Street, Cape Town, Western Cape under the reference CAS 601/5/2017. This was followed, on the same day, by 2 complaints of racism being lodged against FW De Klerk at the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC). The charges against both de Klerk and Vlok were for murder and conspiracy to murder. The case has subsequently been transferred to the Sebokeng Police Station where a new reference, CAS 472/5/2017, was allocated. The following major massacres that occurred between 1990 and 1991, while both De Klerk and Adrian Vlok sat on the SSC, for which BLF has laid charges were amongst others: the Sebokeng massacre on 22 July 1990 – twenty-seven blacks were killed; the Tembisa Vusimuzi hostel massacre on 12 September 1990 – twenty-five hostel residents were killed; the Jeppe Station train attack in Johannesburg, 13 September 1990 – twenty-six commuters were killed; the Thokoza Hostel massacre on 2 December 1990 – thirty residents were killed; the Sebokeng Funeral Vigil massacre on 12 January 1991 – thirteen people were killed; the Gobizitwna Beer Hall massacre in Sebokeng on 23 May 1991 – thirteen people were killed; the Alexandra Funeral Vigil massacre on 12 May 1992 – fifteen people were killed, and; the Swanieville squatter settlement massacre in Kagiso on 12 May 1991 – twenty-eight people were killed. Moreover the following major massacres that occurred between 1992 – 1993, while De Klerk sat on the SSC also for which BLF has laid charges include: the Crossroads squatter camp massacre in Katlehong on 3 April 1992 – twenty one blacks were killed; the Boipatong massacre in Vaal on 17 June 1992 – forty blacks were killed, and; the Thokoza hostel massacre on May 1993 – sixteen hostel residents were killed. There has been no further developments on the case on the part of the police despite the fact that BLF has provided the police with the a detailed statement. There is, in addition, video material that corroborates the evidence led and adduced during the proceedings of the TRC against the de Klerk regime. BLF also wrote to the Minister of Police on 26 March 2018 requesting urgent meeting and action regarding this but received no response. BLF’s endeavors to bring de Klerk et al to book – which besides the laying of charges with the SAPS and complaints with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) further entails taking de Klerk to the International Criminal Court (ICC) and the Equality Court in the coming week – has been well documented and publicized. So the selective amnesia of the WMC owned media and the NPA is certainly not ideologically innocent in this regard. The idea is to ultimately contain this matter towards settlement with the neo liberal system. Sources 1. “Cradock Four back to haunt De Klerk” – click here to read article. 2. “FW’s ‘truth’ a sickening read” – click here to read article. 3. “Son of slain Cradock Four activist implicates FW de Klerk in father’s murder“ – click here to read article.