EFF leader Julius Malema. Image credit: News24 Black First Land First (BLF) notes that Julius Malema, who had promised to occupy Eskom, has characteristically forgotten to do so. Malema made the undertaking, on 16 December 2019 during the elective conference of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Nasrec, to occupy the power utility. “Next year before the end of January we shall occupy the premises of Eskom to demand a reliable supply of electricity to our people”, he said. We ordinarily wouldn’t bother to comment on Mr Malema’s now well known penchant for inconsistency. His political method is now established as consistency in inconsistency. Malema had promised to occupy Eskom to address loadshedding. A quixotic answer to a problem created deliberately by white monopoly capital (WMC). Occupation of Eskom would precipitate its crisis to justify privatization. Here we are just reminding everyone that Malema doesn’t mean what he says. This endangers the future. The black youth are under the wrong impression that Malema is interested in revolutionary change. It’s our revolutionary duty to warn and educate the youth about the dangers of flip flopping. It’s not the first time that Malema had strategically forgotten to fulfill a promise. He totally forgot to occupy ABSA after organising a 50 000 strong march to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in 2015. While addressing the Southern African-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Johannesburg in 2015, he announced that EFF would command 3000 people to occupy Absa branches if the bank didn’t indicate how it would fight inequalities in the country; and that a task team has been established to action the bank occupations the next year (2916).
“[We will] occupy Absa, each and every branch of Absa, until we are given a practical programme of action on how the bank is going to intervene to resolve the inequalities in society”, he said He then jetted off to London and held secret meetings with representatives of British imperialism, like Lord Robin Renwick, and forgot about the ABSA occupation. ABSA was then partly owned by the British banking establishment through Barclays. Instead of occupying ABSA, Malema carried out the instructions he was given by his handlers to hound President Jacob Zuma and the Guptas. The ABSA amnesia situation was not the only one. In an effort to fundraise, Malema threatened to occupy the illegally obtained International terminal (Fireblade Aviation) which is inside the OR Tambo International Airport and privately owned by the Oppenheimers. Yet again, dolololo occupation of Fireblade. We remind all that Malema has never ever taken any direct action against WMC. When it’s time to fight WMC, he is hit by amnesia. So we aren’t suprised that he has forgotten yet again. We also remember the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) situation where meetings were held with Patrice Motsepe and Malema’s amnesia was guaranteed. Malema oa lebala. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 2 February 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.