Image credit: iAfrica By BO Staff Writer Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has threatened to occupy Johann Rupert’s properties this year; disrupt SONA should Pravin Gordhan not be fired by this Thursday; occupy financial institutions, banks and other white monopoly (WMC) entities to demand “equal treatment of black people”; and occupy the OR Tambo Airport to demand the closure of the Oppenheimer owned private terminal. Malema made these threats at the party’s press briefing on Sunday, 9 February. “We shall stage occupations in financial institutions that profile black people for their marginalisation; all insurance and medical companies, as well as banks, shall get unannounced occupations to demand equal treatment of black people. We shall also march to the properties of Johann Rupert, particularly his farms in Mpumalanga and Western Cape,” Malema threatened. Moreover, “we’ll march to Stephen Koesheff’s Investec against its undue influence over the political affairs of this country through their puppet Ramaphosa. Finally, we shall march to the OR Tambo Airport to demand the closure of the Oppenheimer Private Terminal,” he vowed. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, responded on social media to Malema’s threats. On the issue of the EFF disrupting SONA if Ramaphosa does not fire Gordhan by Thursday, Mngxitama said: “President Zuma sent Shaun Abrahams to charge Pravin Gordhan and the SARS rogue unit gang. Shaun obliged. The people (Malema and others) who are now saying they are fighting Pravin called Zuma a Zupta and hounded both him and Shaun out of office. Now the same people are calling for Pravin to be fired and we must believe they are fighting a just and principled battle? No I’m sorry I got great difficulty with this flip flopping. Great difficulty. Zuma had done everything to get rid of Pravin and these people defended Pravin.” Also, “where I grew up, when you didn’t want a fight you started a nthibeng nthibeng. You declare how you going to murder your opponent whilst throwing yourself at a different person to stop you. The announcement to disrupt the SONA is a case of Nthibeng Nthibeng”, he added. Mngxitama further called out Malema’s inconsistencies regarding Johann Rupert. “They have lunches with Johann Rupert. They advice him. They ask money from him. They sip his wines at their functions. They then turn around and say they are going to fight him and you believe them? Its a call for another ewallet my friend. Fundraising strategy…”, Mngxitama said. Malema has previously made promises that he didn’t keep. On 16 December last year, he promised that the EFF will occupy Eskom, He said “before the end of January we shall occupy the premises of Eskom to demand a reliable supply of electricity to our people”. He has not delivered on this threat. At Sunday’s press briefing Malema threatened to occupy banks this year. He also made a similar promise in 2016 but failed to deliver. To this end, in 2015 he announced that the EFF would gather 3000 people to occupy Absa branches if the bank didn’t indicate how it would fight inequalities in the country. He said that a task team had been set up to execute the bank occupations in 2016. Not a single occupation of Absa materialized at the instance of the EFF. It is also not the first time that Malema has threatened that the EFF will occupy the Oppenheimer’s illegal International terminal, Fireblade. He had made a similar promise previously but failed to fulfill it. And we can’t forget how after meeting with Patrice Motsepe, Malema’s threat to occupy the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) didn’t materialize Malema has failed to take any direct action against WMC because after threatening to occupy them, he meets and strikes deals with them.