By Andile Mngxitama Ramaphosa’s African National Congress (ANC) loves FW de Klerk; the Reds of London give Helen Zille political power – same WhatsApp group. This is the disgraceful politics of the Freedom Charter – it creates the Stockholm syndrome (love and empathy for your tormentors). Was Thandi Modise not brutalized by the apartheid regime for her courageous revolutionary activities? In 2018 the entire parliament gave FW De Klerk a standing ovation and booed former President Jacob Zuma. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) gave the Democratic Alliance (DA) political power in the metros, even as Helen Zille was saying colonialism was not so bad. As if that was not enough, when the DA leader and parliamentarian Kohler Barnard came out and praised PW Botha, the apartheid mass murderer, that didn’t cause the Reds of London to break their cozy relationship with the party of apartheid apologists. Fw de Klerk is a well known war criminal. However, opportunists who never fight on principle but only for self preservation have now decided that part of deflecting attention from their problems is singling out de Klerk and embarrassing the useless ANC. These people have no interest in fighting de Klerk. Fighting him now is convenient for self interest. We see the same opportunistic attitude on their part regarding Pravin Gordhan. Remember they call racists “the better devil”. Without Black Consciousness you can’t fight racism and apartheid. The Freedom Charter makes you love FW de Klerk and give political power to Helen Zille. Black First Land First (BLF) will be writing to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for progress on the 22 criminal charges we laid against FW de Klerk in 2017. If they take no action against him, we shall pursue the matter with the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights. It has in the past tried war criminals. Also, we shall be looking at a private prosecution of FW de Klerk. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.