By Andile Mngxitama The African National Congress (ANC) was strapped on the FW de Klerk thing because it is not revolutionary – it’s a mere political party. When Black First Land First (BLF) called on the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) to suport us against ABSA, they insulted us. A political party is fighting for its relevance. It is not advancing an agenda of the people. So it must oppose other political parties because it views them as competition. When the African Transformation Movement (ATM) correctly calls for a motion of no confidence against President Cyril Ramaphosa, the EFF opposes it. Of course there may be ewallet promises and National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) threats, but primarily because it’s a motion by another political party they reject it for no justifiable reasons. The ANC was going to oppose a motion from another party to remove de Klerk from parliament (as it did in principle) because it (ANC) is a mere political party not a revolutionary movement. The hypocrisy of the EFF could have been exposed without defending de Klerk. Many people don’t understand why BLF has adopted radical economic transformation (RET) which is a program of the ANC (forget for a moment that it was actually BLF that gave the ANC its RET – go and check the BLF 2016 Hands off Zuma campaign demands). Many people who don’t know the difference between politicians and revolutionaries think it’s wrong for BLF to adopt a program of another organization. This is because these people don’t know that we are not in competition, we are pushing a black agenda. RET is a minimum program to unite ALL progressive people and organizations against a common primary enemy called white monopoly capital (WMC). BLF has a maximum program which is BLACK POWER! The minimum program will not give us Black Power but it’s one step in that direction. That’s why giving political power to a party of WMC like the Democratic Alliance (DA) is not a tactical move. It’s simply selling out. How does giving political power to Helen Zille advance the black agenda? A revolutionary movement recognizes that there are no fundamental differences amongst black people. We are all oppressed by the same enemy irrespective of our political party affiliation and must unite against this enemy for our common survival. The problem is that the enemy is sponsoring all the top political parties. In this regard, to stay on top these political parties must not offend their sponsors. They must instead compete to be ice-boys of the enemy. Cleverly, the enemy has made elections a very expensive process driven by marketing principles. Politicians have no chance to unite the oppressed on a common minimum program like RET. Their job is to compete with each other. President Zuma showed revolutionary character when he begged three times in parliament for black political parties to unite and address the land question. Unfortunately the black politicians were not going to support him when their London and Stellenbosch mandate was to remove him. They really don’t care for the land question. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.