Louis Farrakhan and Malcolm X. Image credit: Atlantic Black Star By Andile Mngxitama I have noticed a new attempt to demonize Brother Louis Farrakhan. There is circulation of his statement soon after the assassination of Brother Malcolm X which seem to approve of the assassination. We will do well to remember that there was a bitter rift between Malcolm X and the Nation of Islam (NOI) at the time. I have no doubt that the FBI took advantage of the rift to assassinate Malcolm X. Because it was at the heat of the conflict with the NOI and young Farrakhan, as a leader in the organization, felt a problem has been solved. He was of course wrong and he knows it. Over time Farrakhan has become the spokesperson of the race. He is a dangerous man for the system and now the people who murdered Malcolm X want us to hate Farrakhan. We must resist this. All black resistance has produced rivalries within the black community. We need to handle these better and develop principles and protocols to deal with disagreements. None of us must ever join hands with the enemy against any black person. That’s why I will never forgive the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for working with the Democratic Alliance (DA) against the African National Congress (ANC). That’s harming black people whilst claiming to fight for them. I begged the EFF not to go to bed with the DA. I even wrote an open letter. We saw the same rivalry between Marcus Garvey and W.E.B. Du Bois. There is a rumor (which I don’t believe) that Du Bois worked with the FBI against Garvey. We also know of the rivalry between Garvey and Haile Selassie. The same bitter rivalry even goes to art and literature. The rivalry between Dr Chinweizu and his Bolekaja boys and Prof Wole Soyinka, is another classical example. There is also one involving Ali Mazrui. In South Africa (SA) we have not recovered from the UDF versus AZAPO feud. The apartheid government took advantage of the Inkatha versus ANC rivalry to cause mayhem for blacks. I’m just saying that our differences, if not properly handled, can be used by the enemy. Just like in Zimbabwe where the enemy waited until Robert Mugabe gave land back to blacks, and then it revived the Matabeleland massacres. The current attempt to demonise Farrakhan needs be understood in this context. We must always as blacks find our own solutions. It’s so important to study the Black First Land First (BLF) ten point BLACK CODE. It’s the best guide to handling our differences. Remember differences amongst blacks are not antagonistic. We can solve them by dialogue and patience. We are not enemies. The enemy is often using us, against ourselves. #BlackSermons Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.