“Blacks can be a nasty lot. We are capable of mass murder. Think of Idi Amin, Mobutu Sese Seko, vicious apartheid Bantustan leaders or of toyi-toying comrades with their fiery necklaces. Just last year, here in South Africa, we killed more than sixty black Africans in an anti-black rage others call xenophobia. Think about those blacks who helped whites catch members of their own race into slavery. We blacks often brutally oppress our own. We betray our prophets and kill for the enemy… Black political, economic and academic classes, correctly called the comprador, are murderous, corrupt, consuming, conniving and docile in the face of white aggression. They are adept at hiding its evil nature behind big words such as ‘democracy’, ‘constitution’, ‘good governance’, ‘independence’, ‘rule of law’ and ‘elections’. And if colonial anthropological reports are anything to go by, then blacks are cannibals too – we eat human beings! But racist? Oh hell no!” BLACKS CAN’T BE RACIST was first published in July 2009 as the third volume of the monthly radical journal New Frank Talk: Critical Essays on the Black Condition. Since then, it has become a cultural phenomenon – what some have termed ‘the Illmatic of race discourse’ in South Africa – inspiring thinking and movements just the same. This 10th Anniversary Edition includes a new preface examining the decade that followed the initial publication of the essay, a foreword by Ziyana Lategan, and a critical appraisal by Ndumiso Dladla. The book will retail at R100 as of April 2020. Discounted pre-orders, at R60 excl. delivery, are available from 14 February to 31 March 2020. Deliveries will ensue shortly thereafter.  Buy Blacks Can't Be Racist  ANDILE MNGXITAMA is South Africa’s foremost intellectual klipgooier. He has contributed his unique insights and analysis to all major media outlets in print, radio and television for almost two decades. A leader of the intellectual vagabonds – all those who refuse to dull or dilute their thinking for a home in the institutions of power. He is the co-editor of the seminal Biko Lives!, publisher, series editor and major contributor of New Frank Talk, co-author of From A Place of Blackness, and author of the novella Fools of Melville. He is currently a president of Black First Land First, having served and led in Azanian Students’ Movement, the Landless People’s Movement, Blackwash, September National Imbizo, and the Economic Freedom Fighters. No related posts.