Former SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni. Photo credit: Gallo Images By BO Staff Writer Ms Dudu Myeni is under unjustifiable fire from both the untransformed judiciary and the Zondo Commission. Her sin was to try and protect our national assets. It was during her tenure as SA Airways (SAA) board chairperson that the following truths came out: SAA is insolvent, but pays uncompetitive contract values to monopolies such as Bidvest without any advertisement. BidAir is Bidvest Cleaning Aircraft Interior and Toilets. It’s a month to month contract since 2013. This is the same contract that expired in 2009 but was extended in 2013. No Advert in this respect. BidAir is Bidvest Ground Handling. There was no tender advertised and there is no contract. Bidvest is paid R200 million per annum. First Garment is owned by Bidvest at SAA Airchefs. Laundry Services use SAA premises and electricity. Profit Sharing since 1999 in this regard. BidAir is owned by Bidvest. Contracted for SAA with a Service Level Agreement. No tender. No contract value. Invoices come as and when to SAA. Then there is Mango – SAA subsidiary which for years continues to be led by White males such as Nico Bezedenhout and Christo Wiese of Shoprite Checkers who gave his own company (Shoprite) a contract to sell Airline tickets when he was Chairman. No tender . Nic Vlok just finished his tenure as Mango CEO. The current CFO, Marelize Labuscashne, was acting CEO until recently when Nico Buizuinhout was appointed. Mango appoints contractors without going through the tender process and all services are paid for by SAA. Mango does not pay for Jet fuel. Mango does not pay for Ground Handling contracts. Mango does not pay for Aircraft leases. Mango does not pay for Landing Slots and New Routes. All of the above that Mango doesn’t pay are paid for by SAA which Mango is said to refund. When one really looks at SAA, Mango and SAA Express, it becomes evident that African taxpayers are subsidising an apartheid relic which refuses to transform. The status quo remains as less than 3% of procurement at the National carrier goes to black owned companies.