Former board chairperson of the South African Airways (SAA), Ms Dudu Myeni Black First Land First (BLF) is not surprised by the North Gauteng High Court’s declaration on Wednesday of Ms Dudu Myeni as a delinquent director for life. Throughout the trial, the presiding Judge Ronel Tolmay was visibly biased and irritable when dealing with Ms Myeni. The finding seems to have been a foregone conclusion. The judiciary has increasingly become activists in the political arena where Radical Economic Transformation (RET) is concerned. It is seemingly doing the bidding of White Monopoly Capital (WMC), which stands to lose the most from RET. Ms Myeni is being punished for pushing for the transformation of the SAA. She commissioned numerous forensic investigations during her tenure at SAA which have shown, amongst other things, that over R1 billion was disappeared by corruption. Furthermore the investigations uncovered racist evergreen contracts and systematic looting through an unjustifiable perks regime for the largely white pilots cohort. Ms Myeni has moreover decried the skewed and racist pattern of spending the procurement budget at SAA. To this end she had challenged the fact that out of the SAA annual procurement budget of R24 billion, 98% goes to white companies and only 2% is spent on black businesses. Me Myeni had in fact demanded changes and to this end has angered white businesses who in turn also own the media that was unleashed upon her. Ms Myeni is being punished for this. BLF calls on the judiciary to desist from descending into the political arena. The judiciary doesn’t engender public confidence in itself. Increasingly it looks like the judges are pushing an agenda. This is sowing the wind. We must not be surprised when the whirlwind is reaped. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 28 May 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.