Iranian Oil Tanker Black First Land First (BLF) applauds Iran’s courageous decision to send five oil tankers with fuel to the revolutionary government of Venezuela in direct defiance of the US economic and naval blockade of Venezuela. We further laud the resistance of Venezuela to the US sanctions imposed on it. This encourages, which BLF welcomes, the further defiance of other countries sanctioned by the US towards defending and securing self-determination and national sovereignty internationally. Any military action by the US against the Iranian tankers is in contravention of international law and would amount to international piracy. By Trump’s own admission Venezuela is currently surrounded by the US military. We strongly denounce all US military actions aimed at undermining the efforts of Iran to get the much needed fuel to Venezuela. We remember the cowardly killing on 3 January this year of the Iranian military commander Qassem Soleimani who together with the Iranian people resisted U.S. imperialism for many decades and was instrumental in defeating US terrorist proxies that unleashed genocide in the Middle East region. Long live Soleimani! As an anti imperialist Black Consciousness (BC) organization, BLF stands in solidarity with oppressed nations against imperialism. We recognize that irrespective of a country’s unique national characteristics, imperialism is the main enemy of the world’s oppressed nations. We demand that the U.S. complies with international law and not interfere with the Iranian oil tankers porting in Venezuela. BLF says, “US Hands Off the Iranian tankers“. We also call for an end to the US economic and naval blockade of Venezuela. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 24 May 2020 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Technical Advisor, International Relations: Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 67 838 9955
Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell:Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.