Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Image: uncensored By Andile Mngxitama Don’t let Johann Rupert dribble you. He is winning! On 6 May 2020 I did a live broadcast on Facebook during which I examined the question “Johan Rupert withdraws court application against NDZ, is it a victory?” I explained that Stellenbosch, which is white monopoly capital (WMC), has changed tact after the cigarettes mishap and why they did so. The new strategy is “Don’t Resist, Absorb”. Rupert is winning the war. The cigarette challenge almost created a new dynamic where Radical Economic Transformation (RET) forces were gathering around Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma (NDZ). Stellenbosch has decided that since they are winning momentum, why oppose NDZ and create a hero for RET? They will solve the little cigarette problem politically because they are in charge. They are winning in the bigger picture. The cigarette war is just one little front in a battle of many fronts which they are winning. The “Don’t Resist, Absorb” tactic of Stellenbosch clarifies these confusing developments happening concurrently: 1. Apology to NDZ by eNCA and the suspension of two of eNCA‘s anchors.
2. Withdrawal of the High Court application by British American Tobacco (BAT), which is a constituent part of Rupert’s investment vehicle.
3. Ramaphosa’s government sending scientists to Madagascar to test Covid-Organics.
4. Adoption of “Radical Economic Transformations” by the Ramaphosa government to push the post ‘Covid-19 crisis‘ economy, which is part of the Stellenbosch agenda, If you don’t understand the Art Of War, these developments will dribble you. You will celebrate when in fact the enemy is in total control. Right now there is only one force making progress and consolidating its gains. That’s Stellenbosch through the New Dawn. Privatization is being fast tracked. Massive public funds are given to WMC. Vaccines are on the way too. There will be no Covid-Organics coming to South Africa soon. I respect the tactical acumen of Stellenbosch. We have been had. Watch my full presentation: https://www.facebook.com/andile.mngxi/videos/1665902466901928/ Stay black
Vuka Darkie
Educate! Agitate! Organize! Andile Mngxitama is the President of BLF, a radical black consciousness organization.