Image: Walking Times Black First Land First (BLF) is shocked at the lack of regard for the health of the nation on the part of the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA). The telecoms regulator has chosen to be the champions of the telecommunications industry at the expense of the interests of the nation. The cynical release of extra bandwidth spectrum to unleash the 5G technology is a disgrace. Vodacom has announced its rolling out of 5G to our major cities after ICASA granted them a licence under the pretext of responding to the demand resulting from the increased online activity during the COVID-19 lockdown. We believe that this is a mere ruse to fast track the rolling out of 5G despite serious health concerns raised over the technology. BLF has written twice to ICASA asking that it addresses the health concerns associated with 5G. We have asked for a moratorium on the roll out of 5G until the associated health and safety concerns are addressed. The concerns about the related health risks of 5G are shared by a large body of experts who have based there conclusions on the multiple studies they have undertaken. In this regard over 324 scientists and medical doctors globally, have launched an appeal to the European Union which warns of the health risks of 5G and calls for a suspension of the roll out of the technology until the said concerns have been addressed. BLF has already shared this information with ICASA which has treated us with utter contempt to the extent of not even acknowledging our letters. ICASA is fast becoming the bulldog of the telecommunications industry. There are furthermore over 40 cities internationally that have blocked the roll out of 5G, including Geneva and Brussels. Russia has itself delayed the implementation of 5G for various reasons, including health concerns. BLF is asking for mere guarantees based on science that 5G is not harmful to the people. What’s the hurry for? Again we ask ICASA to stop putting profits before people and place a moratorium on 5G until the health concerns raised are addressed. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
05 May 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.