Explo Nani-Kofi. By Andile Mngxitama Brother Explo Nani-Kofi reminded me of an ordeal I suffered at the hands of a Marxist in London in the early 2000s. I was enroute from Brazil and spent the night over in London on the invitation of Brother Explo and other exiled African revolutionaries. Brother Explo was involved in Ghana’s radicalization during the 1970s and 1980s. He was part of the young revolutionaries who brought Flight Lieutenant Jerry Rawlings to power but soon had to flee from his regime. More specifically following a failed coup attempt on 15 May 1979 against General Fred Akuffo‘s military dictatorship, Rawlings was imprisoned. He then indicated a leftist orientation and consequently drew the attention of Ghanaian revolutionaries. Soldiers inpired by Rawlings politics broke him out of prison on 4 June 1979. He subsequently led an uprising against Akuffo and established the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC) which in turn organized an election in September 1979 which Hilla Limann of the People’s National Party (PNP) won. Rawlings toppled the incompetent Limann administration on 31 December 1981 via a second coup and set up the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) which he chaired. This was soon followed by state repression of the left and a systematic withdrawal from radical transformation policies. Rawlings further indebted the country to the IMF and World Bank and their structural adjustment policies. Brother Explo had been in exile for over 2 decades. It’s a complicated and tragic story. In a ROAPE interview he “explains what some of the experiences were for activists on the ground”. Anyway coming back to my encounter with Brother Explo and the other comrades – these African exiles engaged me almost all night. It was robust and hugely educational. I don’t know how but the following day I found myself being escorted by a white young over-eager Marxist to the offices of the Socialist Workers Party. Those guys are running an empire. They even showed me their massive printing press and really impressive list of very well done publications. My escort spoke non stop – preaching to me the virtues of Marxism and global brotherhood. The thing that got me was a warning that I must be be careful of Brother Explo because he has a black agenda. I didn’t argue too much because I had to get on the tube to Heathrow Airport. He jumped with me on the tube all the time preaching his Marxism nonsense. I was in the meantime on a buzz from the black talk the previous night. He was irritating me. On the tube he got even more desperate. He needed to convert my black soul into Marxism to “save” me. He spoke until I dozed off. When I woke up he was still talking. He had not even realized that I had taken a nap. White Marxists are a pain! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.