Photo credit: BO archives Black First Land First (BLF) is yet again forced to comment on the lack of a pro black ideology, black consciousness (BC), by black political parties like the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). The lack of BC has reduced these parties to being servants of white monopoly capitalists like Johann Rupert. Now the EFF has proudly given R6 million to the Solidarity Fund which is a mechanism that prioritizes white businesses. The R6 million is in fact a gift from Julius Malema to white businesses. The Black Business Council (BBC) has consistently complained about how the Solidarity Fund has sidelined black businesses. Malema ignored these legitimate cries. To this end he chose to donate the R6 million with no conditions in favor of black businesses to the same Solidarity Fund. Black businesses, like spaza shops, have been destroyed by the lack of government support during the lockdown. In fact white monopoly capital (WMC) is now taking over the township economy after the destruction of black businesses during the Covid-19 crisis. As correctly reported, “[t]he list of companies that have been awarded multibillion-rand contracts to supply critical medical equipment for the country’s fight against Covid-19 is dominated by white-owned companies”. BLF asks, why give more money to white companies? The pro white Business for South Africa (B4SA), which controls the Solidarity Fund, has been selecting predominantly white entities to be awarded contracts to supply personal protective equipment (PPE), in a process that looks like nepotism. BLF supports the objection of the South African United Business Confederation (SAUBC) to Tito Mboweni‘s decision to allow the pro WMC B4SA to select businesses to supply PPEs via a process which is out of kilter with government procurement policies. This is corruption.
BLF can’t dictate what Malema must do with the money of his organisation. However, we are duty bound by our revolutionary conscience to expose the fact that the donation is being given to white businesses. Our BC dictates that we raise this matter on behalf of the marginalized black businesses. We invite Malema to abandon white thinking and adopt BC. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
10 May 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Reposted from the BLF website.