Ms Dudu Myeni By BO Staff Writer Former SA Airways (SAA) board chairperson, Dudu Myeni, has been the subject of concerted attacks and vilification by the white owned press and opposition political parties. She has been made the scapegoat of all that is wrong at the SAA. This unfair projection by the media and Stellebosch controlled opposition parties and the pro white monopoly capital (WMC) elements inside the ruling party was done to hide the truth. The white owned media made a warrior against corruption, the corrupt one. Civil society was also mobilised to run this dirty campaign against Ms Dudu Myeni, an outstanding patriot and driver of transformation to ensure black empowerment. Black Opinon brings you the truth! Black Opinion has been following the public letter written by Ms Dudu Myeni and has decided to bring you the truth. In the letter Ms Myeni alludes to several forensic reports she has commissioned and submitted to the relevant authorities including parliament and Ministers. No action was taken by these authorities. Instead they fueled dirty campaigns against Ms Myeni. These forensic documents are available to the public with minimal effort. Today BO will bring you the full forensic report commissioned by SAA under the leadership of Ms Myeni. This report was tabled at parliament and handed to Minister Pravin Gordhan. None of these entities took any action. The forensic report was done by ENSafrica Forensics (“ENS”) with Sekela Xabiso, a black owned professional financial consulting firm. The report shows widespread corruption involving white owned service providers to SAA. The total cost of these corrupt activities for the period under review runs close to R2 billion! BO shall be breaking down elements of the report for you. The white owned media shall not tell you the truth. Empower yourself and others. What is clear is that Dudu Myeni is an innocent servant of transformation who has been persecuted for trying to save SAA. Read for yourself.  The full forensic report shall follow.