BLF believes the open bias of Judge Zondo shows that he has descended to naked hatred of President Zuma. It now seems that Judge Zondo has allowed his ambition to become Chief Justice to cloud his sense of fairness. Taking to the media to harangue President Zuma without so much as allowing reasonable time to formulate a response to the threat of a subpoena to appear before the impatient judge shows the hand of Judge Zondo. It is now clear that Judge Zondo is campaigning to get the nod for the job of Chief Justice by doing the dirty job of President Ramaphosa who is the main ideological foe of the Radical Economic Transformation agenda pushed by President Zuma. It’s hard not to believe that Judge Zondo is not in a job-hunting spree. So determined is the judge to get the approval of President Ramaphosa who is the final arbiter in the appointment of the CJ, that Zondo has adopted an open antagonistic attitude towards President Zuma. No other witness has been treated in the openly biased and contemptuous manner as President Zuma has been subjected to. Minister Pravin Gordhan has openly defied the commission with no consequences. As a matter of fact, Judge Zondo is protecting Pravin Gordhan. BLF has submitted evidence of corruption implicating Pravin Gordhan to the commission. Initially, a date was given for BLF to appear before the commission. Then no further communication has been received from the commission despite numerous emails of enquiry from us. It is clear that uZondo uzonda uZuma. It would seem that Judge Zondo has converted his ambition to be chief justice into hating President Zuma to ensure he is recognized as a defender of President Ramaphosa. This is unfortunate but provides enough reason to assume that President Zuma will be prejudiced by Judge Zondo. Zondo must do the right thing and recuse himself from any further hearing of the Zuma testimony. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 29 September 2020 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 This statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website.